Today, the Senate Public Safety Committee unanimously approved Senate Minority Leader Brian W. Jones’s ( R-San Diego ) bipartisan Senate Bill 1074 , called the “Sexually Violent Predator Accountability, Fairness, and Enforcement Act” (SAFE Act). Click here for SB 1074 the factsheet and here for more information about the bill and SVP issue.

“The SAFE Act is designed to protect our neighborhoods and families from dangerous sexually violent predators, perpetrators of some of the most horrendous and violent sex crimes,” said Leader Jones. “We are thankful that the Senate Public Safety Committee understands the need to protect our communities from these predators. Today is the first step towards fixing this broken and alarming sexually violent predator release program.”

The SAFE Act aims to prevent the state from secretly dumping sexually violent predators (SVPs) into family-friendly neighborhoods throughout the state with no regard for public safety. SB 1074 is the third bipartisan SVP bill Leader Jones has authored in the last three years.

Specifically, SB 1074 would:

1. Make public safety the highest criterion of any potential placement of an SVP; and

2. Require the Department of State Hospitals (DSH) to take ownership in the placement process by approving any placements BEFORE the vendor can sign any leases for placement locations

Sexually violent predators are convicted of a sexually violent offense and diagnosed with a mental disorder that predisposes them to be a danger to others with a high likelihood to re-offend. When a court orders their conditional release, DSH allows their vendor Liberty Healthcare the freedom to house SVPs in unsuspecting communities across California. A new report indicates that housing a single SVP costs taxpayers over $456,000 annually.

Leader Jones has been a trailblazer in fighting SVP placements in San Diego County for years. Last year, Leader Jones secured an audit of Liberty Healthcare, the state contractor responsible for overseeing placements of SVPs. The audit results are expected to be released in Fall 2024.

The bill is coauthored by Senators Marie Alvarado-Gil ( D-Jackson ), Brian Dahle ( R-Bieber ), Janet Nguyen ( R-Huntington Beach ), Roger W. Niello ( R-Fair Oaks ), Kelly Seyarto ( R-Murrieta ), and Assemblymembers Juan Alanis ( R-Modesto ), Megan Dahle ( R-Bieber ), Joe Patterson ( R-Rocklin ), and Marie Waldron ( R-Valley Center ).

SB 1074 passed out of the Senate Public Safety Committee on a 4-0 vote. The measure is similar to Leader Jones’s bipartisan SB 832 from last year, and the bipartisan SB 841 from two years ago. Hundreds of Californians have signed the petition to support SB 1074. For more information on the SVP issue, please click here .

What they’re saying

"As a state legislator dedicated to the safety and well-being of my district and California as a whole, I stand firmly in support of SB 1074. This bill not only prioritizes public safety as the paramount concern in deciding the placement of Sexually Violent Predators – it also ensures accountability by mandating the Department of State Hospitals' approval before any placement occurs. We cannot allow secrecy to jeopardize the safety of our neighborhoods. SB 1074 is a vital step towards transparency and responsible governance." – Senator Marie Alvarado-Gil ( D-Jackson )

“Senate Bill 1074, The SAFE Act, aims to put responsibility back to where it should be – on the Department of State Hospitals. They determine when an SVP is released, and therefore should be responsible for ensuring our communities are safe. I’m pleased that the Senate Public Safety Committee agrees and moved the measure forward today.” – Butte County District Attorney Michael L. Ramsey

“I’m thrilled that our state will be holding the Department of State Hospitals responsible and putting common sense measures into place. I’m very grateful for Senator Jones and his persistence in helping our communities stay SAFE.” – Sarah Thompson, Mother and Founder of Kid Safe California

Capitol Office

1021 O Street, Room 7640 Sacramento, CA 95814 Phone: (916) 651-4040 Fax: (916) 651-4940

Scripps Ranch Office

10650 Treena Street #110 San Diego, CA 92131 Phone: (858) 547-3818

Escondido Office

720 N. Broadway, Suite 110 Escondido, CA 92025 Phone: (760) 796-4655

facebook Facebook

twitter Twitter

instagram Instagram

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

Home

About Brian Biography

Biography

Legislation My Legislation Committees Bill Search

My Legislation

Committees

Bill Search

Newsroom Releases/Editorials In The News Audio/Video Are You Kidding Me? Photos Media Kit

Releases/Editorials

In The News

Audio/Video

Are You Kidding Me?

Photos

Media Kit

Contact Me Certificate Request District Internship Program District Map E-mail the Senator Legislative Proposal My Offices Subscribe to the Mailing List

Certificate Request

District Internship Program

District Map

E-mail the Senator

Legislative Proposal

My Offices

Subscribe to the Mailing List

Jones's measure to protect communities from sexually violent predators unanimously passes

More News

ICYMI

View All

Breadcrumb

Aug 6
California Republicans’ Growing Impact on Social Media
Jul 16
Leader Jones Stands on Steps of the Capitol Opposing the Anti-Charter School Bill
Jul 16
AB 84 Charter Schools Press Conference
Jul 15
Leader Jones Demands Accountability on Dangerous Sexually Violent Predator Program

Jun 17
2025
$8-a-gallon gas? Senate Minority Leader Brian W. Jones requests audit of gas price hikes
Jun 9
2025
Nixed bill could have prevented LA unrest, California minority leader says
Jun 8
2025
California lawmaker warns Menendez brothers' case is driving return of bill to release thousands of killers
Jun 3
2025
Ramona nonprofit, resident recognized with Senate District 40 awards