Senate Minority Leader Brian W. Jones (R-San Diego) is calling on the governor to veto Senate Bill 81 (D-Skinner, Berkeley), which would force the courts to review and reverse the parole board’s and governor’s decisions to deny parole unless specific evidentiary conditions are met.

Click here to read Leader Jones’s letter requesting the veto.

“SB 81 is a measure by one VERY liberal, soft-on-crime senator who doesn’t think criminals, even violent ones, are being released from prison quickly enough,” said Leader Jones . “She wants to force the courts into overriding the decisions of the parole board and governor because she doesn’t like their inmate release rate numbers.”

SB 81 will require courts to review parole denials based on a single factor – is the felon a danger to society right now, currently – while ignoring the full range of considerations required including their record in prison, their level of rehabilitation, whether or not they have acknowledged their role in the crime, their future risk of danger, and other factors.

It denies courts their role as gatekeepers in habeas cases – those in which the inmate challenges that they should even be imprisoned – forcing them to review any case brought before them with a presumption for reversal.

“There are already numerous existing procedures in place to ensure accountability and fairness at parole hearings, including a vetted state board, gubernatorial authority, and the ability for an inmate to petition for judicial review of their case,” continued Leader Jones. “Instead, SB 81 puts a thumb on the scales of justice, tipping them drastically in favor of violent felons whom the board and governor already have determined are not suitable for release yet. This is not just wrong but dangerous.”

Leader Jones urges Gov. Newsom not to undermine his authority and that of the parole board by signing SB 81. Upending the parole process by greenlighting the premature release of violent criminals will inevitably endanger the public.

Capitol Office

1021 O Street, Room 7640 Sacramento, CA 95814 Phone: (916) 651-4040 Fax: (916) 651-4940

Scripps Ranch Office

10650 Treena Street #110 San Diego, CA 92131 Phone: (858) 547-3818

Escondido Office

720 N. Broadway, Suite 110 Escondido, CA 92025 Phone: (760) 796-4655

facebook Facebook

twitter Twitter

instagram Instagram

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

Home

About Brian Biography

Biography

Legislation My Legislation Committees Bill Search

My Legislation

Committees

Bill Search

Newsroom Releases/Editorials In The News Audio/Video Are You Kidding Me? Photos Media Kit

Releases/Editorials

In The News

Audio/Video

Are You Kidding Me?

Photos

Media Kit

Contact Me Certificate Request District Internship Program District Map E-mail the Senator Legislative Proposal My Offices Subscribe to the Mailing List

Certificate Request

District Internship Program

District Map

E-mail the Senator

Legislative Proposal

My Offices

Subscribe to the Mailing List

Leader Jones Urges Gov. Newsom to Veto SB 81 that Would Release More Violent Criminals Earlier

More News

ICYMI

View All

Breadcrumb

Aug 6
California Republicans’ Growing Impact on Social Media
Jul 16
Leader Jones Stands on Steps of the Capitol Opposing the Anti-Charter School Bill
Jul 16
AB 84 Charter Schools Press Conference
Jul 15
Leader Jones Demands Accountability on Dangerous Sexually Violent Predator Program

Jun 17
2025
$8-a-gallon gas? Senate Minority Leader Brian W. Jones requests audit of gas price hikes
Jun 9
2025
Nixed bill could have prevented LA unrest, California minority leader says
Jun 8
2025
California lawmaker warns Menendez brothers' case is driving return of bill to release thousands of killers
Jun 3
2025
Ramona nonprofit, resident recognized with Senate District 40 awards