Today, Senate Minority Leader Brian W. Jones ( R-San Diego ) and Senator Marie Alvarado-Gil ( D-Jackson ) announce the introduction of the bipartisan Senate Bill 1074, called the “Sexually Violent Predator Accountability, Fairness, and Enforcement Act” (SAFE Act). Click here for SB 1074 factsheet and here for the petition in support of the bill.

“The SAFE Act is designed to protect our neighborhoods and families from dangerous sexually violent predators,” said Leader Jones. “SVPs have committed crimes so heinous, I argue they should never be released from prison. If the state is ordered by a court to release SVPs and has no choice but to do so, the state has the responsibility to do it in a manner that best protects the public.”

SB 1074 aims to prevent the state from continuing to try to secretly dump Sexually Violent Predators (SVPs) in unsuspecting communities throughout the state with no regard to public safety. SB 1074 is the third SVP bill Leader Jones has authored in the last three years.

﻿ The measure is coauthored by Senator Marie Alvarado-Gil ( D-Jackson ), Senator Brian Dahle ( R-Bieber ), Senator Janet Nguyen ( R-Huntington Beach ), Senator Roger W. Niello ( R-Fair Oaks ), Senator Kelly Seyarto ( R-Murrieta ), Assemblymember Juan Alanis ( R-Modesto ), Assemblymember Megan Dahle ( R-Bieber ), Assemblymember Joe Patterson ( R-Rocklin ), and Assemblymember Marie Waldron ( R-Valley Center ).

“As a legislator who represents predominantly rural communities from Lake Tahoe to Death Valley, I have seen our neighborhoods become dumping grounds for Sexually Violent Predators. The decision-making process surrounding the placement of these predators has been unclear from the beginning, and this lack of transparency only fuels public distrust and exacerbates the challenges we face,” said Alvarado-Gil. “It’s time to put an end to the dangerous practice of allowing Sexually Violent Predators to roam freely in our communities. I stand with Minority Leader Brian Jones in holding the Department of State Hospitals (DSH) accountable for every single step of the placement process.”

Specifically, SB 1074 would:

Make public safety the highest criterion of any potential placement of an SVP

Require the Department of State Hospitals (DSH) to take ownership in the placement process by approving any placements BEFORE the vendor can sign any leases for placement locations

“Families across California are being jolted by the state’s secret attempt to put an SVP in their neighborhoods in a manner that completely disregards public safety,” continued Leader Jones. “State Hospital officials have often tried to duck their responsibility by giving their vendors, such as East Coast-based Liberty Health Care, too much freedom in targeting unsuspecting communities. This practice is unacceptable.

“We’re announcing the bipartisan SAFE Act to require transparency in the SVP placement process, force state officials to own up to these decisions, and make public safety the highest priority. Let’s fix this broken release program once and for all,” concluded Leader Jones.

Leader Jones has been a trailblazer in fighting SVP placements in San Diego County for years. Last year, Leader Jones secured an audit of Liberty Healthcare, the state contractor responsible for overseeing SVP placements.

SB 1074 is similar to Leader Jones’s bipartisan SB 832 from last year, and the bipartisan SB 841 from two years ago. To sign the petition supporting SB 1074 please click here . For more information on the SVP issue, please click here .

Capitol Office

1021 O Street, Room 7640 Sacramento, CA 95814 Phone: (916) 651-4040 Fax: (916) 651-4940

Scripps Ranch Office

10650 Treena Street #110 San Diego, CA 92131 Phone: (858) 547-3818

Escondido Office

720 N. Broadway, Suite 110 Escondido, CA 92025 Phone: (760) 796-4655

facebook Facebook

twitter Twitter

instagram Instagram

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

Home

About Brian Biography

Biography

Legislation My Legislation Committees Bill Search

My Legislation

Committees

Bill Search

Newsroom Releases/Editorials In The News Audio/Video Are You Kidding Me? Photos Media Kit

Releases/Editorials

In The News

Audio/Video

Are You Kidding Me?

Photos

Media Kit

Contact Me Certificate Request District Internship Program District Map E-mail the Senator Legislative Proposal My Offices Subscribe to the Mailing List

Certificate Request

District Internship Program

District Map

E-mail the Senator

Legislative Proposal

My Offices

Subscribe to the Mailing List

Senate Minority Leader Jones and Senator Alvarado-Gil introduce bipartisan measure to protect communities from Sexually Violent Predators

More News

ICYMI

View All

Breadcrumb

Aug 6
California Republicans’ Growing Impact on Social Media
Jul 16
Leader Jones Stands on Steps of the Capitol Opposing the Anti-Charter School Bill
Jul 16
AB 84 Charter Schools Press Conference
Jul 15
Leader Jones Demands Accountability on Dangerous Sexually Violent Predator Program

Jun 17
2025
$8-a-gallon gas? Senate Minority Leader Brian W. Jones requests audit of gas price hikes
Jun 9
2025
Nixed bill could have prevented LA unrest, California minority leader says
Jun 8
2025
California lawmaker warns Menendez brothers' case is driving return of bill to release thousands of killers
Jun 3
2025
Ramona nonprofit, resident recognized with Senate District 40 awards