As I reflect on 2024, I am deeply proud of the work we’ve accomplished together to address some of the biggest challenges facing California. Representing our district in the State Senate is both an honor and a responsibility, and I remain steadfast in my commitment to making our state affordable, safe, and a place where every child can thrive.

The rising cost of living continues to put a strain California’s families. This past year, I fought tirelessly to hold state government accountable and ensure that every tax dollar is put to good use.

Transparency and fairness must be at the core of any decision that affects your household budget. That’s why when I was made aware the California Air Resources Board (CARB) was proposing changes to the Low Carbon Fuel Standard (LCFS) program regulations that could result in price increases for gasoline, I demanded that CARB disclose basic information on how the board’s proposed new fees might affect gas prices.

Family budgets are already stretched thin, and decisions with such far-reaching financial impacts deserve full transparency and public input. When CARB failed to respond to requests from Legislative Republicans for transparency , I took action.

I launched a petition demanding that CARB delay a vote that could hike gas prices by as much as 85 cents per gallon. Despite the fact that nearly 13,000 Californians signed the petition, our call for transparency was ignored. Nonetheless, I remain unwavering in my commitment to holding decision-makers accountable.

Affordability was also front and center in my legislative work last year. I helped secure critical funding for housing programs that will assist some of our most vulnerable populations. I also supported initiatives to bring relief to farmers and ranchers impacted by environmental challenges, securing grants and funding to help sustain their livelihoods.

I also took on the California Public Utilities Commission (CPUC) when they voted to add a fixed charge of $24.15 per month to many of our utility bills. This fee, which the unelected board can increase at any point, places an unnecessary burden on consumers and discourages energy conservation. I joined my colleagues in urging the CPUC to reject this proposal and protect Californians from unjustified and escalating utility costs.

To my disappointment, the CPUC voted to raise consumers' monthly utility bills .

Public safety remains a cornerstone of my legislative priorities. From protecting critical infrastructure through SB 778 to ensuring that schools impacted by disasters like snowstorms receive essential funding through SB 1429 , I have worked to safeguard our communities and uphold the standards Californians deserve.

Education is the key to a brighter future, and I remain deeply committed to ensuring that our children have every opportunity to succeed. This year, I was honored with the Golden Apple Award and the Education Champion Award for my dedication to improving public education. One of the highlights of my legislative package was SB 1410 , which empowers schools to offer Algebra I to 8th-grade students. Ensuring access to STEM education at an earlier age prepares our students for competitive futures in higher education and the workforce.

Behind every bill passed, every meeting attended, and every funding dollar secured is the belief that good governance starts with listening. I have hosted 55 town halls and attended over 2,500 meetings and events this year because your voice matters.

I am grateful for the bipartisan collaboration that allowed nine of my bills to be signed by Gov. Newsom. From honoring the legacy of Senator Bob Dutton through SCR 59 to helping more Californians gain financial freedom through SB 985 , these efforts represent my commitment to meaningful solutions that benefit our community.

As we look ahead to 2025, I am excited to continue our work together. I will continue to focus on making California a more affordable and safer place to live. I am committed to addressing the issues that matter most to you, and invite you to continue sharing your concerns and ideas. I encourage you to subscribe to my email alerts to stay up to date with my work in Sacramento and locally. You are also welcome to email me directly here .

We have much work ahead to ensure that California remains a place where families can thrive. But with your continued input and support, I know we can rise to meet these challenges.

Thank you for the privilege of serving as your senator. Let’s continue working together to build a stronger, safer, and more affordable California.

Capitol Office

1021 O Street, Room 7220 Sacramento, CA 95814 Phone: (916) 651-4019 Fax: (916) 651-4919

Redlands Office

1758 Orange Tree Lane, Suite B Redlands, CA 92374 Phone: (909) 335-0271 Fax: (909) 335-0282

facebook Facebook

twitter Twitter

instagram Instagram

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

Home

About Rosilicie My Legislation Current Legislation Legislative Accomplishments 2024 Legislative Accomplishments 2023 Legislative Accomplishments 2022-21 Bill Search Committees Biography

My Legislation Current Legislation Legislative Accomplishments 2024 Legislative Accomplishments 2023 Legislative Accomplishments 2022-21 Bill Search

Current Legislation

Legislative Accomplishments 2024

Legislative Accomplishments 2023

Legislative Accomplishments 2022-21

Bill Search

Committees

Biography

District District Map Virtual Insurance Town Hall Virtual PSPS Town Hall Wildfire Resources

District Map

Virtual Insurance Town Hall

Virtual PSPS Town Hall

Wildfire Resources

Newsroom Releases/Editorials

Releases/Editorials

Contact Me Constituent Services E-mail the Senator Look Ahead Mobile Office Hours My Offices State Agencies Subscribe

Constituent Services

E-mail the Senator

Look Ahead

Mobile Office Hours

My Offices

State Agencies

Subscribe

Senator Ochoa Bogh: 2024 Year in Review

Breadcrumb