SACRAMENTO – Assemblymember Jacqui Irwin (D-Thousand Oaks) today  convened a joint hearing of two key Assembly Committees to examine the policy  steps needed to ensure accountability and transparency by state government as  it addresses the ongoing threat of cyber security.  The hearing of the Select Committee on  Cybersecurity and the Assembly Committee on Privacy and Consumer Protection focused  on tangible actions the state can take to secure its assets.
“Cybersecurity is a national priority with critical importance in California,”  said Assemblymember Irwin. “This committee will continue to work to accelerate  the steps being taken to protect California from these cyber threats, and look  for new solutions in a way that could serve as an example to other states and  the nation as a whole.”
The United States and California, in particular, are in a  cybersecurity crisis. The White House has released two Executive Orders on this  issue in the past two months and President Obama declared a National Emergency  to address cyber threats last week. Cyber-attacks are becoming larger, more  frequent, and more sophisticated; and our state government is a priority target  because of the value of our information and economy. The state is responsible  for defending its networks and assets, as well as the critical networks that  Californians rely on for services. The Joint Committee Hearing on Cybersecurity  concentrated on tangible actions that the state can take to protect its assets.
Assemblymember Irwin is the author of two bills that address  issues of Cybersecurity informed by discussions prompted by the Select  Committee on Cybersecurity. Assembly Bill (AB) 670 would require state agencies  to receive a network security assessment at least once every 2 years. AB 739 would  create an exemption from liability for private entities who are actively  sharing cybersecurity threat information with their industry peers and/or the  state government for the purpose of reducing vulnerabilities and improving  preparedness for cybersecurity threats.
“AB 670 and AB 739 will address several of the key issues  facing California that we heard in the Cybersecurity hearing today,” said  Assemblymember Irwin. “I am looking forward to working with State Departments,  the National Guard and private entities to further develop this legislation and  improve California’s cybersecurity infrastructure.”