Highlight Local and Statewide Issues in Early Childhood Education for 
Agricultural Families
Oxnard, CA
– The Mexican American Opportunity Foundation (MAOF) is a  non-profit, community-based organization that was established in 1963 in order  to serve disadvantaged individuals and families throughout California. This  past Friday May 29th, Assemblymembers Jacqui Irwin (D-Thousand Oaks) and  Anthony Rendon (D-Lakewood) visited the local center in Oxnard operated by the  Mexican American Opportunity Foundation.
“Today I was able to witness first-hand the  amazing early childhood education services MAOF provides to  Oxnard families.” Said Assemblymember Irwin. “Investing in early childhood  education has long-term positive results and cost savings for our State. I am  grateful we have one of their preschools in our community and for their ongoing  investment in our future generations.”
The  Oxnard center currently serves 45 children, most of which have parents working  in the local Agricultural community and struggle with a lack of affordable  early childhood education programs. Statewide, MAOF operates nearly 8,000 child  care and early childhood education programs serving 100,000 Californians – 95%  of whom are low- to moderate-income. Their mission is to provide for the  socio-economic betterment of the greater Latino community of California, while  preserving the pride, values and heritage of the Mexican American culture.
The members took the opportunity to learn about the school  and the foundation and the challenges they face, as well as read stories and  have fun with the children. “It was a pleasure to join Assemblymember Irwin to  see MAOF’s great work in enforcing lifelong habits for learning and health.”  Assemblymember Rendon said. “The experience highlighted how much more we should  be investing in early childhood education to ensure all of our youth get a head  start in life.”
Assemblymember Jacqui  Irwin represents California’s 44th Assembly District, which includes the  communities of Camarillo, Casa Conejo, Channel Islands Beach, El Rio, Lake  Sherwood, Moorpark, Oak Park, Oxnard, Port Hueneme, Santa Rosa Valley, Thousand  Oaks, and Westlake Village.
Assemblymember Anthony  Rendon is serving in his second term representing the 63rd Assembly District,  which includes the cities and communities in southeast Los Angeles County.  Prior to serving in the Assembly, Rendon was executive director of several  early childhood education centers.
CONTACT:
Morgan Culbertson, 805-482-1904