Assemblymember also set to serve on State Public Works Board, Inter-Agency Council on Vets, Interstate Compact on Educational Opportunity for Military Children
(Sacramento,  CA) – Assemblymember Jacqui Irwin (D-Thousand Oaks) today announced her  appointment to the State Commission on the Status of Women and Girls.   Irwin was appointed by Assembly Speaker Toni G. Atkins to the Commission, a  nonpartisan state agency that works to promote equality and justice for all  women and girls in California
“Women  have clearly come a long way, but there is still much work to be done,” said  Assemblymember Irwin.  “It is an honor to serve on this Commission as an  advocate for economic justice, educational equality, access to health care and  many other critical issues affecting women and girls.”
In  addition, Assemblymember Irwin was also appointed by Atkins to serve on the  State Public Works Board, which oversees fiscal matters associated with  construction projects for state agencies. Once the Legislature appropriates  money for an infrastructure project, the board is responsible for ensuring the  public’s money is spent as it was intended by lawmakers.
Further,  Irwin was appointed to two organizations that serve veterans.  The  Assemblymember is now a member of the Inter-Agency Council on Veterans, charged  with identifying and prioritizing the needs of California’s veterans, and the  Interstate Compact on Educational Opportunity for Military Children that  addresses issues brought about by the often transitory nature of a military  child’s education.
“Just because a parent makes a sacrifice on  behalf of our country doesn’t mean that their children should have less of an  opportunity at a first-class education,” continued Irwin.  “We need a  better focus on the educational transition issues encountered by military  families, including enrollment, attendance, eligibility and ultimately  graduation. My chairmanship of the Assembly Veterans Committee will guide and  focus the work of that committee to shine a light on these struggles and work  to alleviate them.”
CONTACT:
Susanna Schlendorf, (916) 319-2044