SACRAMENTO  – Assemblywoman Jacqui Irwin (D-Thousand Oaks) introduced Assembly Bill 556 to  uphold consumer confidence in charitable giving. The measure is sponsored by  Attorney General Kamala D. Harris. Specifically, the bill closes a loophole in  the law regarding commercial fundraisers who raise money on behalf of nonprofit  organizations and extends a 10-year statute of limitations to include  commercial fundraisers and other third parties who aid and abet charity  misconduct.
“As  a city councilmember and board member of local nonprofits in Ventura County, I  saw the enormous positive impact that charities have on our communities,” said  Assemblywoman Irwin. “AB 556 will help keep bad behavior by a few from  undermining the confidence that Californians have in the more than 70,000  active nonprofit organizations doing great work in California. I commend  Attorney General Kamala Harris for her work on this issue and look forward to  working with her on AB 556.”
For-profit  companies that raise money on behalf of charities are currently required to  disclose that a portion of donations would be used to pay for the fundraising  services. AB 556 closes a loophole by ensuring that companies that establish  themselves as “fundraising counsel” have the same disclosure requirements as  other commercial fundraisers. AB 556 also expands the statute of limitations  for charitable misconduct lawsuits to 10 years to ensure that the Attorney  General can hold commercial fundraisers, fundraising counsel, and other third  party entities that aid and abet charity fraud accountable.
“Californians  should have complete confidence that the donation they make to a charitable  organization will go toward the cause they support, and feel secure knowing  their gift won’t be diverted to the pockets of a third-party, for-profit fundraiser,”  said Attorney General Harris.  “I thank Assemblymember Irwin for standing  with me to increase transparency and empower Californians with the information  they need to donate wisely.”
Across  California, non-profit organizations are critical service providers, robust  with human and financial capital, and uniquely representative of the visions  and values of California’s diverse communities. According to
Causes  Count
, a comprehensive report on California’s nonprofit sector issued  by the California Association of Nonprofits (CalNonprofits) in late 2014,  California’s charitable organizations contribute 15 percent — or one-sixth — of  California’s Gross State Product.
Assemblymember  Irwin’s website:
http://asmdc.org/irwin
View  the Attorney General’s report on charitable solicitation campaigns conducted by  commercial fundraisers
here
.