SACRAMENTO-
Assemblymember Jacqui Irwin  (D-Thousand Oaks) is pleased to announce several district legislative  priorities have been signed into law by Governor Brown. Highlights include  bills allowing Californians with disabilities to save for the future, strengthening  our state cybersecurity infrastructure, and key budget allocations to improve community  college success rates and bring in much needed funding to our Community  Veteran’s Service Officers.
Currently a  person diagnosed with a disability cannot have assets worth more than $2,000 or  earn more than $680 per month without forfeiting eligibility for government  programs like Medicaid and SSI. The passage of Irwin’s Achieving a Better Life  Experience (ABLE) Act (AB 449) changes this, and starting January 1, 2016 Californians  with disabilities will be able to work and save for the future without losing  access to essential public benefits. “This bill, brought to me by a  constituent, provides people with disabilities a path to employment and greater  independence and dignity,” said Irwin.
Earlier this  year, the state auditor reported most of our state agencies are at “high-risk”  to cyber-attacks. AB 670 requires our most vulnerable agencies to receive  cybersecurity risk assessments annually and provides the resources to bring  them to compliance with security standards. “The state is entrusted with our  citizen’s valuable information and the state bears a responsibility to actively  defend those assets,” remarked Irwin. AB 670 was passed with bi-partisan  support and signed by the governor to take effect next year.
County  Veteran Service Officers (CVSO) are the initial local point of contact for the  thousands of veterans in Ventura County and connect them with the Federal  benefits they have earned. CVSOs often save the state money by qualifying and  shifting veterans away from state services such as Medi-Cal and into the  appropriate federal veterans’ programs. Asm. Irwin’s bill, AB 171, to increase state  funding for CVSOs was included in this year’s budget. This will increase the  capacity for CVSO services to California’s 1.8 million veterans.
Also included in this year’s budget were  funds to improve community college success rates. Over 70% of first-time  community college students are unprepared for college level work and are in  need of remedial courses and, as a result, are less likely to complete  college-level courses.  In Ventura  County, only 40% of community college students requiring remedial courses ever finish  a college-level course.  Irwin’s AB 770 influenced  the inclusion of $60 million to redesign and streamline basic skills courses statewide.  “Ventura County is home to three outstanding community colleges, and it is our  job to ensure that students are successful in their pursuit of a college  degree,” said Irwin.