Assembly approves measures  by Assemblymember Gipson
(Sacramento)  –
Assemblymember Mike A. Gipson  (D-Carson) garnered support from his colleagues to pass several bills out of  the Assembly this week. Amongst the legislation approved was Assembly Bill (AB)  709, which will provide public accountability over charter schools, and AB 1235  that would enhance care for senior citizens.
“The  success of effectively moving these bills passed the deadline for the first  half of the legislative process is greatly encouraging,” states Gipson. “I look  forward to now guiding these measures through the Senate and to the Governor  for consideration.”
AB 709,  sponsored by the California Teachers Association, would provide that charter  schools be held to the same conflict of interest and public meeting standards  as public schools.
“Although  charter schools are privately owned entities, they cannot be excused from the  accountability that is required from those responsible for educating our children”  state Gipson. “Families’ deserve to know how their schools are being run, and  our state deserves an education system that is free from unfair advantages and  double standards.”
AB 1235 would improve the quality of life for Medi-Cal  recipients in nursing facilities by increasing the Home Upkeep Allowance (HUA)  and providing greater opportunities for people to transfer back into their  community.
“The Home Upkeep Allowance was created  to help senior citizens keep their homes, but has not been updated for over  three decades, and today is hardly enough to make any difference,” states  Gipson. “AB 1235 takes into account the dramatic increase in home prices over  the last 40 years, and helps realize the true intentions of the original  program.”
AB 709 and AB 1235 will now head to the  Senate for further consideration. For additional information, please visit –
http://asmdc.org/members/a64/legislation/2015-2016
.
Mike Gipson represents  the 64th Assembly District. The district includes the cities of Carson,  Compton, Gardena, Harbor Gateway, Lynwood, North Long Beach, Rancho Dominguez,  South Los Angeles, Torrance, Watts/Willowbrook and Wilmington.