Assemblymember Gipson  honors the detectives in charge of investigation at State Capitol
(Sacramento)  –
Assemblymember Mike A. Gipson  (D-Carson) recognized two Los Angeles Police Department (LAPD) Detectives for  their swift work in arresting four suspects in the recent murder of Tavin  Price. With the help of witnesses and community support, the arrest came just  over a month after the commission of the crime.
“I am really proud of the officers and  the residents of Los Angeles who helped identify the suspects responsible for  this tragedy,” states Gipson. “At a time when there is a lot of distrust  between both, it is great to see law enforcement and the community work  together.”
Tavin Price was killed at the 3000  block of West Florence Avenue on May 29. The shooting took place after Tavin  was confronted by two older men because of the color of his shoes – a red pair  of converse sneakers. Only 19 years old, Tavin was developmentally disabled as  the result of a car accident when he was a child, and had tried to ignore his  assailants. As of today, all four suspects in the killing have been  apprehended.
LAPD Det. Eric Crosson and his partner,  Officer Fernando Cuevas, led the investigation. They were aided by witness  testimony and a pouring of support from community members appalled at the  murder. Both officers were recognized during Assembly Floor session today.
“On behalf of the men and women of the  Los Angeles Police Department, I want to congratulate Detective Eric Crosson  and Officer Fernando Cuevas for being recognized by Assemblyman Gipson and the  community members of the 64th Assembly District,” said LAPD Chief  Charlie Beck. “These two Criminal Gang Homicide detectives put in the hard work  and dedication so that those responsible for the tragic murder of Tavin Terrell  Price were brought to justice.”
Assemblymember Gipson (far  right), and Assembly Speaker Toni Atkins (far left) with Detective Eric Crosson  and Officer Fernando Cuevas, the two officers honored for arresting the  suspects in the Tavin Price murder case.
Mike Gipson represents  the 64th Assembly District. The district includes the cities of Carson,  Compton, Gardena, Harbor Gateway, Lynwood, North Long Beach, Rancho Dominguez,  South Los Angeles, Torrance, Watts/Willowbrook and Wilmington.
#    #   #