(Sacramento)
–The University of California will be the subject of  an audit later this summer, as put forth by Assemblymember Mike Gipson  (D-Carson), Chair of the Joint Legislative Audit Committee (JLAC). The audit  which will focus on the UC’s budget process, nonresident student enrollment,  and executive compensation was approved by the committee today by a unanimous,  bi-partisan 12-0 vote.
“I support the mission of the UC system  to provide exceptional education to our young scholars, but we cannot  compromise fairness in achieving that goal,” stated Gipson. “Recent concerns  regarding inequity in per-student funding amongst colleges with higher ethnic  minority populations, coupled with the increased enrollment of nonresident  students and higher executive pay increases demands our attention.”
A  joint hearing with the JLAC and Assembly Higher Education Committee in February  updated the Legislature about outstanding recommendations stemming from a state  audit of the UC budget process in 2011. During that hearing, it became apparent  that issues remained regarding lower per-student funding among colleges with  higher minority populations and the effect of growing nonresident student  enrollment.  Bringing further motivation for the new audit was the recent  increase in executive compensation and the proposed enrollment cap announced by  UC President Janet Napolitano this week.
“Our  student’s future should not be a bargaining chip in a budget debate” stated  Gipson. “The UC President conditioning student enrollment caps on state funding  is unacceptable, and I hope this audit drives the conversation on how to  provide the best opportunity for our resident students to pursue affordable  higher education.”
The  audit is set to begin in July of 2015, details of which can be found here:
http://asmdc.org/members/a64/news-room/press-releases/oversight-hearing-calls-for-audit-of-uc-budget
.
Mike  Gipson represents the 64th Assembly District. The district includes the cities  of Carson, Compton, Gardena, Harbor Gateway, Lynwood, North Long Beach, Rancho  Dominguez, South Los Angeles, Torrance, Watts/Willowbrook and Wilmington.