(Sacramento)
– Assemblymember Mike Gipson (D-Carson), members of  the California Armenian Legislative Caucus – consisting of Assemblymember  Nazarian, Assemblymember Achadjian, and Assemblymember Wilk – and  Assemblymember Gatto led a successful effort to oppose construction of a  controversial monument of Mustafa Kemal Ataturk being considered by the Carson  City Council last night.
“To  erect a statue of Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, who was at the helm of the Turkish  Nationalist Movement during the Armenian Genocide, is incredibly insensitive  and insulting to the memories of those who died, and their surviving families,”  stated Gipson. “Furthermore, it goes against the consistent position California  has taken to support those affected by the atrocities.”
“I  want to thank Assemblymember Gipson for his leadership opposing this project,  and commend the Carson City Council for acting swiftly against glorifying an  individual who was responsible for consummating the Armenian Genocide. Honoring  a dictator in a park which recognizes individuals who have contributed to the  ideals of world peace would have been unconscionable and a disservice to people  of good will everywhere.”
Under  the authoritarian leadership of Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, Turkish Nationalists  carried out deportations and ethnic cleansing of Armenians and other ethnic  minorities following the collapse of the Ottoman Empire during World War One.  Despite overwhelming facts and evidence, Kemal helped perpetuate the denial of  the Armenian Genocide, which remains the position of the Turkish State today.
“This  year marks the 100th anniversary of the Armenian Genocide and it is  critically important that we continue to increase the public’s awareness of  this tragic event,” states Assemblymember Katcho Achadjian (R-San Luis Obispo).  “I am proud of the almost 300 community members who went to the meeting to  voice their opposition. I would also like to thank Assemblymember Gipson for  his leadership on this issue.”
“I  was proud to join my colleagues in the State Assembly and local Armenian  Activists from my district to put an immediate halt to this insulting statue  that would memorialize a man who denied the Armenian Genocide and led a regime  of oppression at the expense of civil and human rights,” said Assemblymember  Mike Gatto (D-Glendale).
The  project was first proposed in 2012 by Los Angeles Turkish Association as a  Turkish cultural project. After receiving approval by the City’s Landscape and  Monument Sub-Committee to build the monument in the Carson International  Sculpture Garden, the item was scheduled to be heard before the City Council.  Rising community opposition of the monument led to the involvement of the state  elected officials. After hours of heated debate, which included a reading of  the joint letter submitted by Gipson, the city council voted unanimously  against the monument.
"I applaud the Carson City Council  for striking down this heinous proposal and for standing with the more than 1.5  million Armenians who lost their lives under Ataturk’s reign of terror. It is  concerning that a proposal this absurd would be introduced but I’m thankful for  the outcome.” Assemblyman Scott Wilk (R-Santa Clarita).
Mike  Gipson represents the 64th Assembly District. The district includes the cities  of Carson, Compton, Gardena, Harbor Gateway, Lynwood, North Long Beach, Rancho  Dominguez, South Los Angeles, Torrance, Watts/Willowbrook and Wilmington.