Bi-Partisan Bill to Create Tax-Free Savings for Californians with  Disabilities
SACRAMENTO – This weekend Governor Brown signed two bills  implementing the California ABLE Act. Starting January 1st, 2016, individuals  with disabilities and their families will be able to save money tax free, and  without fear of losing eligibility to a variety of public assistance programs.
Assemblymember Jacqui Irwin (D-Thousand Oaks) and Senator  Fran Pavley (D-Agoura Hills) introduced Assembly Bill 449 and Senate Bill 324  to help people with disabilities save for the future. Together the bills create  the Achieving a Better Life Experience (ABLE) Act, which allows people with  disabilities to open special accounts where they can save without risking  eligibility for Social Security and other government programs. ABLE accounts  are similar to the widely used 529 education savings plan but would be used for  disability related expenses.
“AB 449 and SB 324 are a combined effort to implement the  ABLE Act in California to help people with disabilities find a path to  employment, greater independence and dignity,” said Assemblymember Irwin  (D-Thousand Oaks). “The ABLE Act will give families and individuals a tool to  save money to support the needs of people with disabilities and I applaud  Governor Brown for supporting the measure.”
According to the National Down Syndrome Society, a person  diagnosed with a disability cannot have assets worth more than $2,000 or earn  more than $680 per month without forfeiting eligibility for government programs  like Medicaid and SSI. This can have the effect of discouraging people with  disabilities from working and saving. The ABLE Act will allow people with  disabilities to earn money and save without losing access to essential safety  net programs such as Medi-Cal and Social Security. “These accounts will be able  to fund a variety of needed expenses, such as medical and dental care, housing  and education,” said Senator Pavley.
“When my daughter was born with Down syndrome, the nurse  told of the amazing potential of people like my daughter, but also of limits  our government puts on their ability to contribute,” said Brad Pitzele, a proponent  of the California ABLE Act. “I am excited to see our representatives in  Sacramento give my daughter – and all Californians with disabilities – the  opportunity to achieve and contribute to their full potential.  There is great self-worth and dignity that  comes from demonstrating one's capabilities and achieving for one's self.”
Assemblymember Irwin’s website:
http://asmdc.org/irwin