(Sacramento)
– Today, the Joint Legislative Audit Committee  (JLAC), under the chairmanship of Assemblymember Mike Gipson (D-Carson),  conducted a joint oversight hearing with the Assembly Higher Education  Committee regarding the University of California’s budget process. The hearing  was in response to ongoing issues stemming from a 2011 State Audit of the UC  budget system.
“The  UC system is world-renowned among institutions of higher learning, and is  something that all Californians are proud of and benefit from,” states Gipson.  “However, when questions arise about inequity amongst our student population,  and there arise concerns regarding a lack of accountability and transparency,  it is the job of the Legislature to get answers.”
In  July 2011, the State Auditor released a report that identified a lack of  transparency and accountability within the UC budget process. Amongst the  findings, the State Auditor found significant inequity in per-student funding  between campuses. Schools with a higher-than-average-portion of Hispanic,  Black, Native American, and other ethnic groups were receiving over $30,000  less annually per student than the top schools.
“I believe that  the University of California has a responsibility to ensure transparency and  accountability in funding decisions; and, that all of our students, regardless  of which UC campus they attend, have access to a high-quality education,” said  Assemblymember Jose Medina (D-Riverside), Chair of the Assembly Higher  Education Committee.
In  response to the 2011 audit, the UC passed a “Rebenching Initiative” to address  these issues, which is set to be fully implemented by 2018. However, the recent  increase in nonresident students has complicated the issue by reducing the  number of University slots available for California students and shifting  demographics.
“Ensuring  our students have equal and affordable access to higher education is not only  critical to Inland Southern California’s future but for our State’s as well. As  more students look to earn higher degrees, it will be critical to work together  so the cost of higher education is predictable and sustainable, and I look  forward to continuing this discussion,” states Senator Roth (D-Riverside), Vice  Chair of JLAC.
During  the hearing, questions arose regarding the current status of the “Rebenching  Initiative” and whether or not the UC is on track to achieve their intended  goals. Furthermore, it became clear that the Universities recent increase in  nonresident enrollments has not been examined by an independent auditor. As  such, Assemblymember Gipson announced his plan to request a new audit of the UC  budget system.
“We  cannot wait years to determine whether our policies are effective, and when  students are facing tuition increases, it is our responsibility to ensure that  their sacrifice is not wasted,” states Gipson. “That is why I am requesting  this new audit to assess the Universities initiatives that impact per-student  funding, the methods for determining resident and nonresident enrollment  targets, and to examine the compensation for UC top executives.”
During  the next JLAC hearing on March 4th, members of the committee will  vote to approve this new audit, in addition to several other proposals. To find  the initial State Auditor report, follow the link -
https://www.auditor.ca.gov/pdfs/reports/2010-105.pdf
.
Mike Gipson represents the 64th Assembly  District. The district includes the cities of Carson, Compton, Gardena, Harbor  Gateway, Lynwood, North Long Beach, Rancho Dominguez, South Los Angeles,  Torrance, Watts/Willowbrook and Wilmington.