Measure  prioritizes homeless youth for housing on California College Campuses
(Sacramento)  –
Assembly  Bill 1228 authored
by
Assemblymember Mike Gipson (D-Carson) to  improve long-term outcomes for homeless youth was signed into law this week by  Governor Jerry Brown.  The new law requires the California State  University system to provide priority for homeless youth in receiving on campus  housing.
“Studies  show that housing instability is a critical fact that leaves students more  likely to drop out an not finish college,”
stated  Gipson.
“With AB 1228, we have the opportunity to provide students  with stability and improve their long-term outcomes for success.”
Speaking  on behalf of the sponsor of the bill, Housing California, Policy Director John  Bauters stated,
“Homelessness has many faces. Sadly, that face has  increasingly been the face of young people. For these children and youth,  education and employment are often the only path to a future of  self-sufficiency. AB 1228 recognizes that on-campus housing is more than an  amenity for homeless students. It is the opportunity to fulfill the promise of  higher education with the stability that housing brings. We are proud to have  sponsored this legislation and been part of the voice for homeless children and  youth across California.”
Homeless  youth face a myriad of challenges impeding their educational success. A very  low percentage of homeless youth enroll in higher education, and the few that  do historically have much lower graduation rates than their classmates. For  those that do access higher education, challenges follow them to university  campuses. In addition to lacking parental and financial support, many live in  vehicles or shelters. Ensuring that their basic housing needs are met will help  them focus on their education, improving graduation rates and self-sufficiency.
Principal  co-author of the bill, Speaker Toni Atkins stated,
“No young person who is  ready to attend college should have their dreams derailed because they cannot  afford a roof over their head.  AB 1228 will help ensure that a young  person who has struggled with homelessness will have priority for housing and  will be able to think instead about their bright future.
For  more information, please visit Assemblymember Gipson’s website:
http://asmdc.org/members/a64/legislation/2015-2016
.
Mike Gipson represents the 64th  Assembly District. The district includes the cities of Carson, Compton,  Gardena, Harbor Gateway, Lynwood, North Long Beach, Rancho Dominguez, South Los  Angeles, Torrance, Watts/Willowbrook and Wilmington.