Will Examine California’s Role in Addressing Cybersecurity Threats
Sacramento—Assemblymember  Jacqui Irwin (D-Thousand Oaks) has been appointed by Speaker Toni G. Atkins as  chair of the Select Committee on Cybersecurity. The committee was created in  light of recent cyber security threats that have left millions of Americans at  risk of identity theft. As chair of the committee, Irwin recently joined  President Obama and other national leaders at the White House’s Summit on  Cybersecurity and Consumer Protection to address California’s role in  preventing and responding to security threats.
“Cybersecurity  is an issue of rapidly growing importance and I believe the State bears a  responsibility to address the rising threat of cyber-attacks,” said  Assemblymember Irwin. “In light of the recent attacks on Sony and Anthem, it is  clear that this issue affects all citizens and will continue to be a matter of  public safety.”
The  committee will examine California’s cybersecurity vulnerabilities, assess  resources, educate leaders, and develop partnerships to manage and respond to  threats.  Following an investigation into the state’s cybersecurity  issues, the committee will produce a report that informs state agencies,  private businesses, and all relevant institutions.
Additionally,  in her role as the new Chair of the Veterans’ Affairs Committee, Assemblymember  Irwin will oversee the functions of the California National Guard which has  developed expertise on this issue through their Computer Network Defense  Team.
The  scope of the Select Committee will include the state preparedness and  institutional security aspects of cybersecurity. This involves certain  functions carried out by the Governor’s Office of Emergency Services, the  Department of Technology, and the National Guard.
More  information is available at
http://assembly.ca.gov/selectcommitteeoncybersecurity
.
###
Jacqui  Irwin was elected in November 2014 to represent California’s 44th Assembly  District, which includes the communities of Camarillo, Casa Conejo, Channel  Islands Beach, El Rio, Lake Sherwood, Moorpark, Oak Park, Oxnard, Port Hueneme,  Santa Rosa Valley, Thousand Oaks, and Westlake Village.
CONTACT:
Susanna Schlendorf, (916)319-2044