Assembly approves  legislation to give students a better opportunity to learn
(Sacramento)  –
Legislation authored by  Assemblymember Mike A. Gipson (D-Carson) to provide students improved access to  higher education passed the Assembly Floor this week.
“In  California, we are extremely proud of our world renowned institutions for  higher education,” states Gipson. “However, that does not mean we can turn a  blind eye to the challenges, and ignore the necessary changes we must make to  ensure we are providing students the best possible learning experience.”
Assembly  Bill (AB 25) would help students by allowing schools that have become  disqualified from offering Cal Grants to seek an appeal. AB 25 is sponsored by  Charles R. Drew University, which was excluded from offering their eligible  students these grants by failing to meet the current narrow standard.
“Right  now, too many hard working students are being denied the assistance they earned  through good academic standing,” states Gipson. “AB 25 will allow our education  system the flexibility to reconsider helping these students, and their schools,  case by case.”
Additionally,  AB 986 would help chart a course to restore local control to Compton Community  College. For the last 11 years, Compton Community College has been under state  appointed control following fiscal downfall in 2004. Despite marked  improvements, the college has not regained its authority. AB 986 would require  certain benchmarks be met towards reestablishing local control.
“As a  former Councilmember for the City of Carson for nearly 10 years, I believe in  local control and support the return of governing authority back into the hands  of the newly elected board of Compton Community College that was approved by  the voters of our community,” states Gipson.
Both bills will now head to the Senate  for further consideration. For additional information, please visit –
http://asmdc.org/members/a64/legislation/2015-2016
.
Mike Gipson represents  the 64th Assembly District. The district includes the cities of Carson,  Compton, Gardena, Harbor Gateway, Lynwood, North Long Beach, Rancho Dominguez,  South Los Angeles, Torrance, Watts/Willowbrook and Wilmington.