SACRAMENTO  – Assemblymember Jacqui Irwin (D-Thousand Oaks) introduced Assembly Bill 449 to  help people with disabilities save for the future. AB 449, the Achieving a  Better Life Experience (ABLE) Act, allows people with disabilities to open  special accounts where they can save without risking eligibility for Social  Security and other government programs. ABLE accounts are similar to the widely  used 529 education savings plan but would be used for disability related  expenses.
“AB  449 provides people with disabilities a path to employment and greater  independence and dignity,” said Assemblymember Irwin. “The costs of caring and  providing for someone with disabilities can be enormous. This bill will give  families and individuals a tool to save money to support the needs of people  with disabilities.”
According  to the
National  Down Syndrome Society
, a person diagnosed with a disability cannot have  assets worth more than $2,000 or earn more than $680 per month without  forfeiting eligibility for government programs like Medicaid and SSI. This can  have the effect of discouraging people with disabilities from working and  saving. The ABLE Act will allow people with disabilities to earn  money and save without losing access to essential safety net programs  such as Medi-Cal and Social Security.
“When  my daughter was born with Down syndrome, the nurse told of the amazing  potential of people like my daughter, but also of limits our government  puts on their ability to contribute,” said Brad Pitzele, a proponent of AB 449.  “I am excited to see Assemblymember Irwin give my daughter – and all  Californians with disabilities – the opportunity to achieve and contribute to  their full potential.  There is great self-worth and dignity that comes  from demonstrating one's capabilities and achieving for one's self.”
The
Federal  ABLE Act
was signed into law by President Obama with widespread bipartisan  support in December 2014. Each state must take action to be able to offer the  accounts to its residents. Money put into ABLE accounts can be used to support  education, housing, transportation, employment training, health, personal  support services, and other expenses approved under federal regulations to  benefit the person with a disability.
Assemblymember  Irwin’s website:
http://asmdc.org/irwin
Jacqui Irwin was elected in November 2014 to represent  California’s 44th Assembly District, which includes the communities of  Camarillo, Casa Conejo, Channel Islands Beach, El Rio, Lake Sherwood, Moorpark,  Oak Park, Oxnard, Port Hueneme, Santa Rosa Valley, Thousand Oaks, and Westlake  Village.