SACRAMENTO – Assemblymember Jacqui Irwin (D-Thousand Oaks)  today recognized Kathy Long, Ventura County Supervisor, as the Woman of the  Year for the 44th Assembly District.
“It is an honor to recognize Kathy Long for her 35 year  policymaking career. Kathy Long is a remarkable woman who has made a profound  and positive difference in the lives of the people she represents,” Irwin said.  She is well known for creating alliances for the benefit of the health, welfare  and public safety of Ventura County residents.
Kathy Long is a five term Ventura County Supervisor representing  Camarillo, Port Hueneme, Santa Paula, Fillmore, East Lockwood Valley, and  portions of Oxnard. Widely recognized for her leadership and community  involvement, Long’s legacy of achievement includes the preservation of coastal  resources, the protection of Naval Base Ventura County, and supporting the  advancement of California State University Channel Islands. She has been a  leader in strengthening economic vitality and opportunity in the region and  ensuring access to the County health care system for county residents.
As a Supervisor, Kathy Long serves on the Economic  Development Collaborative-Ventura County Board of Directors, as co-chair of the  Regional Defense Partnership for the 21st Century, chair of the  County of Ventura Medical Oversight Committee and founder of the Ventura County  Women’s Economic Roundtable. She represents the Ventura County Board of  Supervisors at the California State Association of Counties.
An active member of many service and business organizations,  Long has been widely honored for her achievements as a public servant,  receiving “Legislator of the Year”, the “Housing Hero Award”, the  “Extraordinary Service Award”, and “Public Servant of the Year” awards.  A  breast cancer survivor, she was honored by the American Cancer Society for her  work in making an impact on the lives of those diagnosed with breast cancer.
The California State Assembly’s “Woman of the Year” event is  held annually, during Women’s History Month, to honor outstanding women from  throughout California.
Assemblymember Irwin’s website:
http://asmdc.org/irwin
Assemblymember Jacqui Irwin represents California’s 44th  Assembly District, which includes the communities of Camarillo, Casa Conejo,  Channel Islands Beach, El Rio, Lake Sherwood, Moorpark, Oak Park, Oxnard, Port  Hueneme, Santa Rosa Valley, Thousand Oaks, and Westlake Village.