(Sacramento,  CA) – The series of high-profile cyberattacks on both private and public  networks has demonstrated the growing risk to our most important societal  systems, our critical infrastructure sectors. In the interests of public  safety, Assemblymember Jacqui Irwin (D-Thousand Oaks) convened a hearing that  featured two panels: one to examine the actions being taken by State  government, and one to weigh input from the private sector.  To start off the hearing Chairwoman Irwin made  her intention clear, “This issue needs to become a priority so that it is a  consideration in all policy discussions and not ignored in future state budgets.”
Panelists  included officials from the Office of Emergency Services and the California  Military Department; policy experts with federal backgrounds; and  representatives from the electric utility and telecommunications sectors. “Currently  in cybersecurity there tends to be an emphasis on simply responding to threats  after the damage is already done,” said Davis Hake, a former cybersecurity  advisor in the Obama Administration.
The  hearing focused on recommendations for policy and the appropriate role of state  government. Cybersecurity bills currently being considered by the Legislature  were discussed throughout the hearing. Specifically, Assembly Bill 670 (Irwin)  as a way to promote effective risk management within state government, Assembly  Bill 1172 (Chau) as a way to address the complicated regulatory structure by  establishing coordinating leadership, and Assembly Bill 739 (Irwin) as a means  to incentivize more sharing of preventative threat information.
“It  is essential to support prevention practices such as threat information  sharing, promote the adoption and leveraging of federal cybersecurity  investment, and invest in workforce development and cybersecurity education  opportunities at our colleges and universities”, said Irwin. “California needs  to take a proactive role to secure our critical infrastructure.”
The  Select Committee on Cybersecurity will convene two more hearings this year, one  to focus on local implications and one to focus more closely on the benefits of  information sharing.