SACRAMENTO  – Assemblywoman Jacqui Irwin (D-Thousand Oaks) introduced Assembly Bill 930 and  Assembly Bill 931, two bills which aim to improve employment opportunities for  California’s veteran population. AB 930, a bill joint-authored by Speaker Toni  G. Atkins (D-San Diego), will codify and expand the successful Work for  Warriors program currently operated by the California Military Department. AB  931 will broaden the group of veterans eligible for the new hiring tax credit  created in 2013.
“As  Chair of the Assembly Veterans Affairs Committee, I am mindful of the  challenges faced by Veterans in securing gainful employment once their service  has concluded,” said Assemblywoman Irwin. “AB 930 will expand Work for Warriors  to all current and former members of the Armed Services, as well as their  spouses and dependents. This bill will also facilitate a partnership with the  Employment Development Department to provide continued efficiency in helping  connect unemployed veterans with jobs.” Work for Warriors is the most efficient  Veteran job placement program in the country with a per placement cost of less  than $650 and has placed nearly 4000 veterans to in less than three years.
“Reducing  the number of unemployed California National Guard members is critically  important to maintaining the Guard’s state of readiness,” said Speaker Atkins.   “I am honored to joint-author AB 930 with Assemblymember Irwin and  excited about the potential of permanently establishing a program that has  proven to be so successful in assisting California National Guard members find  employment.”
AB  931 will expand the timeframe for Veterans who have separated from active duty  to be eligible for a hiring tax credit, making them a more attractive hire for  potential employers. This bill will also increase the amount of veterans in  California who are included in this group. “We should be doing everything we  can to encourage job growth in our state, especially for those who have served  our country,” said Assemblywoman Irwin.
California  is home to a growing population of over 1.8 million veterans. As two overseas  operations are concluding, the employment needs for veterans in California will  continue to increase. According to a Congressional Joint Economic Committee  report, the unemployment rate for California’s veterans continues to be  substantially larger than the national average. The state’s unemployment rate  is also higher for post-9/11 veterans.
###
Assemblywoman  Irwin says veterans have sacrificed for our country and we need to support them  when they return to civilian life. (:12)
Your browser does not support the audio element.
Assemblywoman  Irwin says veterans need – and deserve – employment assistance. (:13)
Your browser does not support the audio element.
CONTACT:
Susanna Schlendorf, 916-319-2044