SACRAMENTO-
Assemblymember  Jacqui Irwin (D-Thousand Oaks) is pleased to announce that several major  district legislative priorities have passed through the Assembly with broad  bipartisan support. Highlights include bills to help veterans rejoin the  workforce and access key services, improve community college success rates,  allow disabled persons to save for the future, and protect Californians against  cybersecurity threats.
The  expansion of the “Hire a Hero Tax Credit” through Assembly Bill (AB) 931  increases incentives for employers to connect veterans with quality,  high-paying jobs. Restoring funding for county veterans services, AB 171 will  help veterans get the federal benefits they have earned. “This not only  benefits California veterans, it benefits the California economy. Over the past  two years county veterans services officers’ work has generated $546 million in  new or increased federal benefits for our veterans, a return of $98 for every  $1 invested,” proclaimed Irwin.
AB  770 provides financial support for community colleges to update and expand  remedial college courses to help first-year students succeed. “With three major  community colleges in Ventura County and increasing demand for skilled workers,  it is our job to ensure that students are successful in their pursuit of a  college degree.” Irwin remarked.
Irwin’s  Achieving a Better Life Experience (ABLE) Act (AB 449) allows Californians with  disabilities to save for the future without fear of losing access to essential  public benefits. “This bill, brought to me by a constituent, provides people  with disabilities a path to employment and greater independence and dignity,”  said Irwin. “The costs of caring and providing for someone with disabilities  can be enormous. The ABLE Act will give families and individuals a tool to save  money to support their needs.”
And  because the State of California is a prime target for Cybersecurity threats, AB  670 was passed to require state agencies to conduct a network security  assessment at least once every two years to protect our information and ensure  that California is a leader in mitigating risk.
Assemblymember  Irwin’s website:
http://asmdc.org/irwin