SACRAMENTO
– Whether it’s picking pumpkins in  the fall or strawberries in springtime, chances are that if you grew up in  Ventura County you have made some lasting childhood memories at Underwood  Family Farms. This is one of the reasons why Assemblymember Jacqui Irwin  (D-Thousand Oaks) today recognized Underwood Family Farms as the 44th Assembly District Small Business of the Year at the 2015  California Small Business Day in Sacramento.
Since 2000,  the California State Assembly hosts “California Small Business Day” annually to  honor the outstanding small businesses throughout California. “Families and  agriculture are two of our top priorities in Ventura County,” said  Assemblymember Irwin. “For decades, Underwood Family Farms has played an  integral role in bringing the two together. A yearly visit to the farm was a  family tradition when my children were young and I always look forward to my  stops at the roadside stands on the weekends,” said Irwin. “I am proud to  highlight Underwood Family Farms and their contribution to our community.”
For more than  two decades, Underwood Family Farms has worked to enrich the lives of residents  of Ventura County not only with their produce but their fun and educational  events. Underwood Family Farms provides visitors with year-round opportunities  to walk the land, dig in the dirt, and buy local produce. “Our mission is to  strengthen the relationship between consumers and our farm through direct  marketing of high quality produce and positive farm experiences,” said owners  Sara-Jane and Craig Underwood. In fact, last year alone Underwood Family Farms  hosted 1,032 field-trips from local schools and educated 66,316 children,  parents, and teachers about agriculture, fresh food, and healthy eating.
Over  the years, Underwood Family Farms has worked to expand their community impact  beyond the farm by marketing fresh produce to consumers through two roadside  stands, farmers markets, summer camps, Community Supported Agriculture, and by  hosting an annual Harvest Festival. The Harvest Festival helps generate  $100,000 for local non-profits, all while helping connect residents to local  agriculture and fresh food.