State Auditor to examine potential  inequalities in CalTrans Maintenance Program
(Sacramento)  –
Assemblymember  Mike A. Gipson (D-Carson), Chair of the Joint Legislative Audit Committee,  requested today that the State Auditor examine the California Department of  Transportation’s (CalTrans) Maintenance Program. The audit, which was approved  by a unanimous vote, will examine what criteria and methods CalTrans uses to  decide where resources are sent.
“From  city to city, the disparity in the upkeep of our public roads is obvious,”  states Gipson. “I want to understand why the freeway on ramps, highway pavement,  and rest stops in more disadvantaged neighborhoods are often in more disrepair  compared to affluent areas. This audit would assess what criteria CalTrans is  using to select maintenance projects, and look at the disparity between funding  in different socio-economic districts.”
The  Maintenance Program provides funding for routine care and upkeep of highway  pavement, roadsides, landscaping, litter removal, and rest stops throughout the  state. The approved audit would review the most recent 5-year period, and  identify revenue, efficiency, and methodology used towards the distribution of  program funds.
“As  an elected official for over a decade, I have watched the roads and highways in  my district fall into such disrepair that many should be classified as safety  hazards. And as roads elsewhere are being fixed, the conditions continue to get  worse for my constituents,” states Gipson. “We need to make sure that public  safety is a top priority when making decisions on what resources our state  expends.”
The  State Auditor will present the findings of the audit next year. For more  information, please visit Assemblymember Gipson’s website -
http://legaudit.assembly.ca.gov
.
Mike Gipson represents the 64th Assembly District.  The district includes the cities of Carson, Compton, Gardena, Harbor Gateway,  Lynwood, North Long Beach, Rancho Dominguez, South Los Angeles, Torrance,  Watts/Willowbrook and Wilmington.