Unique Legislation Focused on the  Demand Side of Sex Trafficking Passes through Public Safety Committee
(Sacramento, CA)
– The Assembly  Committee on Public Safety today voted 7-0 in favor of AB 1822, the Sex-Trade  Offender Program (STOP) Act. The STOP Act was introduced by Assemblymember  Jacqui Irwin (D-Thousand Oaks) and aims to reduce the demand side of the sex  trade business.
The legislation is based on several successful programs throughout the  country that have proven to be effective in significantly reducing the number  repeat offenders from soliciting sex after their completion of the program.  These local programs are designed to educate  convicted sex trade buyers about the dangers of being a participant in sex  trade and human trafficking. The program is in addition to other penalties  imposed by law.
“When it comes to putting a stop to  the sex-trade in California, providing aid for victims and bringing justice to  traffickers is critical, but in order to truly address the problem we need to  make sure that convicted sex buyers don’t become repeat offenders.  These programs have an effective track record  by providing an understanding of the greater cost and human suffering that  happens through sex trade.” stated Assemblymember Irwin.
Human  Trafficking is a modern day form of slavery which lies just beneath the surface  of many aspects in our daily lives and can easily go unnoticed. Recent data  from the National Human Trafficking Resource Center (NHRTC) indicates a steady  increase in human trafficking cases in California, with 979 cases reported in  2015 alone. Of those, most of the victims are women and children, and vast majorities  are forced into the sex trade. The global sex-trade has grown into a powerful  industry worth approximately $32 billion, and with many of their most important  customers living right here in the United States.
AB 1822 would  authorize the court, in addition to any other penalty imposed by law, to  require a person who has been convicted of engaging or attempting to engage in an  act of prostitution, to attend and successfully complete a sex trade buyer  first offender program approved by the probation department, if an approved  program is available.
STOP  programs would provide 6 to 8 hours of education on a range of topics including
;
Effects of sex trade on sellers,  often victims of trafficking, assault, drug addiction, and various forms of  exploitation.
The legal consequences of subsequent  offenses.
Dynamics of trafficking; how pimps  often recruit, control, and exploit women and children for profit, including  first-hand accounts of a sex trafficking survivor.
Sexual addictions, focusing on how involvement  in commercial sex may be driven by sexual addiction and how to seek help for  this condition.
While this would be the first  statewide implementation of the program, the concept has been effectively  implemented in over 50 cities and counties across the U.S., including San  Francisco and San Diego, resulting in a 50%  reduction in recidivism, or re-offense, rates.
“AB 1822  will provide local authorities with an additional tool to help chip away at the  demand side of this multi-billion dollar industry and help put an end to the  vicious cycle of suffering of those trapped in the sex-trade.” said  Assemblymember Irwin.
Asm. Irwin Website:
http://asmdc.org/members/a44/