SACRAMENTO –  To ensure that California can fully capitalize  from it is UC research pipeline, Assemblymember Jacqui Irwin (D-Thousand Oaks)  introduced AB 2664, a bill to provide an investment of $2 million per year, for  three years at each UC campus and the Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory to start  or expand business incubators that bring research innovations to market.
AB 2664  was just approved unanimously by the Assembly Higher Education Committee and  was recently named one of this year’s “Job Creator” bills by the California Chamber  of Commerce.
“Most of our UC campuses are among  the top rankings of our country’s research universities,” said Assemblymember  Irwin. “That research engine is a tremendous asset to California not only in  the talented workforce it produces, but also the innovation that sparks  start-up businesses and local economic growth. With this investment we can  continue to leverage our taxpayer investment in UC research into economic  growth and new, high-paying jobs for years to come.”
As the research arm of the State,  the University of California has driven innovation and economic growth  throughout its history. UC is now the world’s academic leader in the number of  research inventions. In 2014 alone, active UC companies based in California  employed over 19,000 Californians and brought in more than $14 billion in  revenue. Under AB 2664 funding would expand the UC’s innovation ecosystem to  all campuses throughout the state and their respective communities. In recent  years, the UC’s ability to provide entrepreneurial services has reached its  capacity, and this investment is needed in order to keep pace with the demand  for innovation and entrepreneurial infrastructure.
This funding would be used to  establish a robust innovation infrastructure at each campus, providing basics  such as incubator space, legal services, and entrepreneur training to attract  private sector investors. Under this bill, the return on investment, including  local economic impact, would be regularly reported on to ensure maximum impact  of the state’s investment.
Speaking of Assemblymember Irwin’s  legislation, Nancy Lindholm, President of the Oxnard Chamber of Commerce said,
“AB 2664 is an important investment in  California’s future. We must continue to lead the nation in innovation. It is  imperative that our universities prepare student to create jobs, not just to  get jobs,”
There are currently 16 UC-run  business incubators across the UC campuses that have been a breeding ground for  successful business and game-changing innovations. Some incubators are in early  stages of development that grow quickly with an infusion of funding.  For example, the Skydeck incubator at UC  Berkeley launched in 2012 as a partnership between the Office of Research, the  College of Engineering, and the Haas School of Business. Since then, Skydeck  has hosted 84 startup teams, which have gone on to raise $93 million and create  over 650 jobs.
**Assemblymember Irwin’s website:
http://asmdc.org/irwin