SACRAMENTO- California  Assemblymember Jacqui Irwin (D-Thousand Oaks) proudly announced her support for  Startup Weekend Ventura County and their mission to support and launch Internet  of Things (IoT) emerging businesses in the fields of healthcare and agriculture  in her district.
“California’s economy has come a  long way in recent years, and our economy would not be where it is today  without the innovations in science and technology that the startup community  represents,” said Assemblymember Irwin.
“In the state legislature, I serve  on the Committee for Jobs, the Economy, and Economic Development and I am  constantly searching for ways to provide support and remove barriers for  emerging startups and encourage entrepreneurship across the state, especially in  my home county,” remarked Irwin.
“A community’s economic vitality is  dependent upon job creation. The high-paying jobs and scalable growth business  model offered by technology startups make them an ideal addition to our  economy.”
“Legislation and statewide policies  are important but having a collaborative and engaging support structure at the  local level is an essential component for developing a thriving startup  community. Startup Weekend Ventura County is a joint effort between the private  and the public sectors to provide such infrastructure to entrepreneurs  interested in launching their startups in Ventura County.”
“I know Ventura County; we have more  than our fair share of brilliant minds with new ideas and the desire to solve problems.  We have all of the ingredients necessary to become a successful startup  community; this is evident in the types of businesses that already call Ventura  County home.”
“It's those recent graduates and  emerging leaders we need to identify and support. If we can bring them out of  the woodwork and connect them to current industry experts it will make all the  difference. I think Startup Weekend Ventura County is an important opportunity  to develop the support structure we need to get to the next level,” concluded  Irwin.
Asm. Irwin is scheduled to attend  SWVC to show support and address participants on Friday, March 18th,  2016 from 6:30-7:30pm.