Port Hueneme Company Named 2016 Small Business of the  Year by Assemblymember Jacqui Irwin
Frank and Dorothy Oakes (founders) with their son and  grandchildren with Assemblymember Jacqui Irwin at the 2016 Small Business of  the Year Award ceremony in Sacramento on Wednesday 5/25/2016
SACRAMENTO – In the ongoing fight against deadly  disease, the human immune system is the first line of defense and often our  most effective. Significant breakthroughs in medical science have led to the  practice of KLH-immunotherapy; in which the body’s immune system is deployed to  help fight off disease. The problem? These treatments sometimes require  Keyhole Limpet Hemocyanin (KLH); a rare protein extracted from snail-like sea  creatures only found along a small section of the California coast, including  right here in Ventura County.
Stellar  Biotechnologies Inc. (Stellar Biotech) has led the way in the  sustainable development of KLH materials and was named “Small Business of the  Year” for the 44th Assembly District.
Their fascinating product  and science-driven business model drew the attention of local Assemblymember  Jacqui Irwin (D-Thousand Oaks), who nominated them for the award and spoke on  their behalf at an official ceremony with State Legislators and small business  leaders at the state Capitol on Wednesday.
“When a small business goes beyond personal success and  incorporates the public good into their business model; society benefits.” said  Assemblymember Irwin. “Stellar Biotechnologies, Inc. of Port Hueneme is a  shining example of excellence through innovation, and I am proud to recognize  them as a 2016 Small Business of the Year”.
Founded by Frank and Dorothy Oakes in 1999, Stellar Biotech  emerged amidst a paradigm shift in drug research, with new emphasis on  using the body’s own immune system to target life-threatening illnesses such  as: cancer, immune disorders, inflammatory diseases, and Alzheimer’s  disease.  These treatments sometimes use Keyhole Limpet Hemocyanin (KLH);  a rare protein that must be carefully extracted from Giant Keyhole Limpets;  sea-dwelling crustaceans only found off of the California coast, including Port  Hueneme in Ventura County.
Demand for this the KLH protein brought attention to an  unsustainable situation: fishery and manufacturing practices threatened to  deplete the scarce marine source of KLH and constrain future supply of this  important pharmaceutical ingredient and upset the region’s ocean ecosystem.  Stellar Biotech’s patented nursery approach keeps the Limpet’s in a habitat  where the protein can be more easily extracted while maintaining a sustainable  supply for the long term. This approach has created a reliable supply of the  KLH protein and has helped advance research and understanding of this unique  animal.
"The Stellar team is proud of its contributions to  ocean conservation and immunotherapy research, and our position as a  biotechnology employer in the local Port Hueneme community," said Frank  Oakes, President and Chief Executive Officer of Stellar Biotechnologies, Inc.  "We thank the California State Assembly for today's recognition."
** Stellar Biotech website for company info >>
www.stellarbiotech.com
and the KLH knowledge  base
www.klhsite.org
.
**Assemblymember Irwin’s website:
http://asmdc.org/irwin
Office of Asm. Irwin Contact:
Morgan Culbertson
805-822-9694
Morgan.Culbertson@asm.ca.gov
Stellar Biotech Contact:
Mark McPartland
(910) 297-6442
markmcp@stellarbiotech.com