SACRAMENTO
– The California State Legislature today  took a huge stride toward protecting children, who are 50 times more likely to  have their identities stolen than adults, from cyber thieves, including those  who commit so-called “friendly fraud.”
Authored by Assemblymembers Jacqui Irwin (D-Thousand Oaks)  and Mike Gatto (D-Los Angeles), AB 1580 will allow a parent, legal guardian or  conservator to freeze the credit of a child under the age of 16. This is a  significant step forward because credit bureaus do not typically shield a  child’s credit record unless it has already been stolen.
“Children are the most sought-after target for  cybercriminals and child identity theft is likely to go unnoticed for many  years,” said Irwin, Chair of the Cybersecurity Select Committee. “I am pleased  by today’s vote and the tremendous support that this bill has enjoyed from the  entire Legislature.” The bill passed the Assembly by a 70-0 vote.   Governor Jerry Brown is expected to sign the bill into law.
Child identities are especially valuable to thieves because  children do not have existing credit files and the theft often goes unnoticed  until the child applies for a job, student loan or credit card. It is not  uncommon for family members to commit ‘friendly fraud’, using the personal  information of an underage relative to circumvent their own poor credit rating.  AB1580, which also protects incapacitated adults, allows a parent or  representative to directly contact the credit bureaus and submit a request for  a freeze. The bureaus would then be prohibited from releasing credit  information for that protected child, including to another family member.
“Children start out with a clean slate, which makes them the  most sought-after target for cyber criminals,” said Irwin. “I introduced this  legislation to give parents a way to protect our children. We have to fight for  their future.”
The bill’s co-author, Mike Gatto is the Chairman of the  Utilities & Commerce Committee and the longest-serving current member of  the State Assembly.  He represents California’s 43rd Assembly District,  which includes Los Angeles, Glendale, and Burbank
.
“In an era where  hackers have stolen millions of records including names, birth dates, and  Social Security numbers belonging to children, California needs to protect its  youngest citizens,” said Gatto. “This change is long overdue.”
**Assemblymember Irwin’s website:
http://asmdc.org/irwin