SACRAMENTO – The UC Innovation and Entrepreneurship  Initiative proposed by Assemblymember Jacqui Irwin (D-Thousand Oaks) has been  approved in Budget Conference Committee and will be included in the budget sent  to Governor Brown next week. Irwin’s proposal has been touted as a “Job  Creator” by the California Chamber of Commerce.
“Our research universities are a tremendous asset to  California not only in the talented workforce produced, but also the innovation  that sparks start-up businesses and local economic growth.” said Assemblymember  Irwin. “Put simply, this initiative will convert research and science into  products that benefit society, and I am thrilled to see the Legislature come to  an agreement on this investment which will provide returns to California many  times over.”
The proposal was introduced by Assemblymember Irwin as AB  2664 earlier this year, citing the vital role that business incubators play in  converting our taxpayer funded research into new businesses, high-paying jobs,  and the future of California’s economic development. Under the proposal, the state  will invest $2 million per year at each UC campus and the Lawrence Berkeley  National Laboratory to start or expand business incubators that support efforts  to bring research innovations to market. This funding will improve the  entrepreneurial resources at each campus such as incubator space, equipment,  legal services, and industry mentorship to help start-ups overcome early  obstacles and attract private sector investors.
“Assemblymember  Irwin affirms the critical importance of funding that would enable UC campuses  to build upon its existing efforts to support innovation and entrepreneurship  that will foster job creation and economic growth in California,” said UC  President Janet Napolitano. “By investing in UC, California invests in  California’s future.”
The University of California is a significant source of  technology, talent, and support for new companies forming in California. There  are currently 16 UC-run business incubators across the UC campuses that have  been a breeding ground for successful business and game-changing innovations.  In 2014 alone, active UC startups based in California employed over 19,000  Californians and brought in more than $14 billion in revenue.  Since 1980, 843 companies have formed by  commercializing UC technology; 84% of these are still located in California.