Organization raising  funds to build playground designed to include children with special needs
CAMARILLO
– Assemblymember Jacqui Irwin (D-Thousand Oaks) has selected  Play Conejo as the 44th Assembly District’s Nonprofit of the Year.  Since  its creation in 2012, Conejo Valley residents have benefited immensely from the  volunteers, charitable work, and financial support provided by this  organization.
“I have witnessed firsthand the importance of providing adequate funding  in creating quality recreation programs for our youth,” said Assemblymember  Irwin, who previously sat on the Thousand Oaks City Council. “This exceptional  nonprofit organization will help ensure our next generation has access to  healthy lifestyles, with updated equipment and facilities.”
Play Conejo is one of the many nonprofit  organizations from across the state being honored today in the State Capitol.  This recognition is part of the inaugural California Nonprofits Day which was  formally proclaimed by the State Legislature through passage of  Assembly  Concurrent Resolution (ACR) 192 this June.
The organization began as part of the  Conejo Recreation and Park District’s 50th Anniversary with the goal of  promoting public park facilities and recreation programs in the region. Through  Play Conejo’s fundraising efforts, Conejo Recreation and Park District was able  to purchase new playground equipment, restrooms, walking paths, and refreshed  landscaping. The organization also supports a scholarship program to provide  children the opportunity to participate in recreation programs and to adopt  healthy habits.
“Nonprofit organizations are vitally  important to the economy and well-being of California. All too often nonprofits  are ‘hidden in plain sight.’ We are thrilled the State Assembly passed a  resolution putting the spotlight on nonprofits as an economic power that uses  their resources for the common good,” said Jan Masaoka, CEO of California  Association of Nonprofits (CalNonprofits), a statewide alliance of over 10,000  organizations, representing and promoting California’s growing nonprofit sector  and working to bring the full power of nonprofits to strengthening communities.
“We congratulate all of the award  recipients on being honored for the great work they do every day to make  California a better place,” expressed  Masaoka.
Assemblymember Irwin’s website:
http://asmdc.org/irwin