Legislation to Modernize California’s Military Suicide  Law Passes Veterans Affairs Committee Unanimously
SACRAMENTO – The national conversation surrounding mental  illness and the heightened risks within the Military and Veteran populations  has intensified in recent years, with more funds and research being directed  towards proactively identifying and treating mental illness each year. However,  under the State of California’s incorporation of the Uniform Code of Military  Justice (UCMJ);
servicemembers are subject to prosecution if they attempt or  commit suicide.
This policy sends a mixed message amidst efforts to treat  mental illness and prevent suicide attempts among servicemembers. Earlier this  year,
Assemblymember Jacqui Irwin (D-Thousand Oaks) introduced Assembly Bill  2273, a first-of-its-kind bill to decriminalize suicide attempts in the state’s  military and remove the disincentive for servicemembers to seek treatment for  themselves or others.
AB 2273 has passed unanimously through the Assembly  Veterans Affairs Committee.
The bill, if passed, would apply to members of the Army  National Guard, the Air National Guard, the State Military Reserve, and the  Naval Militia collectively representing approximately 20,980 servicemembers.  There is no record of the California Military Department having taken any legal  or disciplinary action against a servicemember committing or contemplating  suicide. According to a Iraq and Afghanistan Veterans of America member survey,  an encouraging 77 percent of respondents sought care when it was suggested that  they do so. Still, the survey showed that many servicemembers did not seek care  because of concern that a mental health diagnosis might affect their career.  Those concerns are not unfounded; under the federal Uniform Code of Military  Justice (UCMJ), servicemembers may be criminally prosecuted in military courts  martial for attempting suicide.
“AB 2273 makes an important policy statement to the  federal government, and sends a clear message to our servicemembers  experiencing a mental health crisis that they can ask for help without fear of  prosecution, and that when they do, they will get the mental health support  that they need,” said Assemblymember Irwin.
“Despite our best attempts to  address these tragedies by strengthening supportive services, the trend  persists. Service members should be able to seek mental health care without any  stigma, real or perceived obstacles, or fear of negative career impact.”
In recent years, active outreach and assistance for those  struggling with mental health disorders has been a priority of the California  Military Department. In 2015 alone, the Department made over 1500 referrals for  various levels of mental health supportive services. Nonetheless, policies  within the UCMJ potentially discourage servicemembers from coming forward to  seek mental health services for themselves or on behalf of at-risk officers  with whom they serve.
AB 2273 aligns policy with procedure in the military.
“There is nothing more heartbreaking than a veteran who  survived combat not being able to survive the peace that follows.  We must  all come together and do everything possible to help address the stigma of  mental health injuries and offer support and treatment to all veterans who need  it.  This legislation is a solid step in that direction,” said Nathan  Fletcher, former California State Assemblyman, Marine Corps Veteran and Founder  of Three Wise Men Veterans Foundation, a San Diego-based Veterans nonprofit.
Assemblymember Irwin’s website:
http://asmdc.org/irwin