“It’s a critical step toward building defenses that ensure our safety,”  says Irwin.
SACRAMENTO
– This week the California  State Legislature took a major step forward in attempting to protect public and  private digital systems from cyber-attacks by passing legislation authored by  Assemblymember Jacqui Irwin (D-Thousand Oaks). The bill, AB 1841, requires the  State Office of Emergency Services to not only develop a plan to boost the  cyber defenses of public networks, but to work with private entities to do the  same. In the past, the idea of terrorists blowing up bridges and dams or taking  over large, digital networks was limited to plots in fiction thrillers and  action films, but recently the threat has become real and substantial.
“Refineries, the power grid and the State’s massive, public  water system are just a few examples of the State’s overall infrastructure  which now depend on digital controls,” says Irwin. “Reliance on computers have  made these processes more efficient, but also more vulnerable to cyber-attacks.  This is a critical step toward building defenses that ensure our safety.”
In the first half of 2015, alone, the Department of Homeland  Security responded to 108 cyber incidents involving critical infrastructure in  the U.S. Many of these were aimed at California facilities. Last year, Governor  Jerry Brown called cyber-attacks against the state’s infrastructure a “major  security risk.”  One of the challenges  facing the State is the fact that the majority of these infrastructure systems  is owned and operated by private companies, some of which are hesitant to admit  to weaknesses in their defenses. Currently, voluntary information-sharing  programs are in place allowing the public sector to collaborate with the  private sector in building cyber defenses. Irwin’s bill would strengthen that  partnership by requiring the OES to provide recommendations to private  companies on how to improve their cybersecurity response plans. It also  recognizes the sensitive nature of the information disclosed to the OES during  this process and protects it from public disclosure and use in private  litigation. Supporters believe Governor Jerry Brown will soon sign the bill  into law.
**Assemblymember  Irwin’s website:
http://asmdc.org/irwin