Legislation to close dangerous loophole in firearm  open-carry law introduced on first day of Legislative Session
(Sacramento) –
Marking the beginning of the 2017 Legislative Session, this afternoon, Assemblymember  Mike A. Gipson (D-Carson) introduced Assembly Bill 7 which will close a  loophole in firearms law. This piece of legislation is the beginning of a  series of bills aimed to close loopholes in gun safety legislation in order to  fight the NRA and keep communities across California safe. Current law bans the  open carry of rifles in incorporated areas, but does not include unincorporated  areas of the state, like East Los Angeles and parts of Compton and Carson that  have tens of thousands of residents. This bill will prohibit the open carry of  weapons like rifles and shotguns in unincorporated areas and will instead  require counties to designate specific areas where this practice is lawful.
“Gun  violence is one of the most important public safety crises that our society  faces today. California has been a leader in gun violence prevention and has been  on the forefront of reform for the last thirty years. Unfortunately the  progress we have made is often met with opposition from the NRA and other  pro-gun organizations who dedicate their time to finding obscure loopholes in  our laws in order to undermine the intent of the legislation – to keep our communities  safe. As a former peace officer and your California State Assemblyman, I am  proud to say I have been a part of the effort to curb the wave of violence that  plagues communities across our state and nation. This year in the Legislature I  will take it one step further and focus on closing these loopholes so the NRA  can no longer diminish our mission to end gun violence and enhance public  safety across the state. The open carry of firearms in residential areas is a  dangerous practice that can put the lives of law enforcement officers and  citizens at risk,” said Assemblymember Gipson.
This proposal will begin moving through  the legislature and will be heard once committees start to meet in the coming  year. By ensuring this loophole – and other loopholes exploited by the NRA -  are closed, citizens in unincorporated areas and communities across California can  have peace of mind knowing that weapons that are designed to kill are not  openly flaunted in their communities.
“I am concerned that someone can open-carry  rifles in densely populated areas, confusing the public into thinking an active  shooter situation is about to occur, which could lead to an armed police  response and threaten public safety, making the practice of safe policing in California  extremely difficult.” Continued Assemblymember Gipson. “Too many members of my  district and in California die from gun violence every year and this bill is a  sensible measure to prevent more tragedy from happening.”
For more information, or to read the contents of the bill, please visit  Assemblymember Gipson’s website at -
http://asmdc.org/members/a64/
.
Mike Gipson represents the 64th  Assembly District. The district includes the cities of Carson, Compton,  Gardena, Harbor Gateway, Lynwood, North Long Beach, Rancho Dominguez, South Los  Angeles, Torrance, Watts/Willowbrook and Wilmington.