(Sacramento,  CA) – An audit conducted at the request of Assemblymember Jacqui Irwin  (D-Thousand Oaks) was released today and concluded that the $28 million  Enterprise-Wide Veterans Home Information System (EwVHIS) developed for the  Department of Veterans Affairs (CalVet) to integrate medical records amongst  the eight state-run veteran homes failed to meet any of its core objectives.
“Today  I find myself deeply disappointed by the Auditor’s findings which confirm the  concerns posed in my audit request of the EwVHIS system,” said Assemblymember  Irwin. “The mismanagement and lack of transparency surrounding this failed  project erodes the trust that taxpayers place in state government. I am  committed to using this as an example to spur needed reform of our IT project  management practices, and conducting vigorous oversight of similar programs  going forward.”
CalVet  began the Enterprise Wide Veteran Homes Information System (EwVHIS) Project in  2007, citing a need to improve the efficiency of patient care and reduce  reliance on paper medical records for the thousands of Veterans served by their  eight state-run facilities.
The auditor’s report
contains testimony and metrics demonstrating the system’s instability and lack  of functionality that remains. In many cases, the system hindered staff  effectiveness and overall patient care, and eventually the implementation was  terminated as it became a danger to patients. This faulty program was  compounded by poor management and oversight from CalVet and the Department of  Technology, which is responsible for overseeing IT projects among state  agencies.
“As  Chair of the Assembly Veteran Affairs Committee, I look forward to partnering  with the new leadership of CalVet and the Department of Technology to address  the underlying causes of this failure and implement the recommendations of the  Auditor’s report.  I am encouraged by Secretary Imbasciani’s response to  the Audit findings and his efforts to reform the Department. Our veterans  deserve better, and CalVet must efficiently deliver the benefits and services  they have earned,” concluded Irwin.
The  Auditor’s recommendations include the need for CalVet to better define IT  management responsibilities, ensure preparation and execution of all project  management plans, and establish a policy to use separate contractors for  oversight functions. Secondly, the Auditor recommends that the Department of  Technology summarize its involvement and document key actions taken during IT  contract disputes and negotiations, and to ensure proper oversight services  take place for each project.