New Alcohol Product Concerning to Law Enforcement and Public Health Officials
(Sacramento, CA)
– State Assemblymember Jacqui Irwin  (D-Thousand Oaks) introduced AB 1554, legislation  to ban the sale of powdered alcohol in the state of California. “Powdered  alcohol has the potential to undermine important laws that protect our youth  from alcohol abuse,” remarked Assemblymember Irwin. “I am proud to introduce  legislation to keep this dangerous product out of California.”
Powdered alcohol is designed to be  easily concealed and transportable. Original marketing for powdered alcohol  blatantly promoted sneaking powdered alcohol into concerts and sports venues as  an alternative to the expensive alcoholic beverages available for  purchase.
In Ventura County, law enforcement officials fear the legal sale of powdered  alcohol would pose a threat to teens. “Powdered alcohol poses an unnecessary  public health and safety risk because of its high potential for abuse,  particularly by youth. It can be dissolved in any liquid and can be carried  easily and without detection in many venues such as schools, concerts and movie  theaters,” said Ventura County Sheriff Geoff Dean. “I strongly support  Assemblymember Irwin’s bill to ban powdered alcohol in California.”
Powdered alcohol is  created through a process in which alcohol is absorbed by a sugar derivative  called Dextrin, which can hold 60% of its weight in alcohol. Once mixed with  water, powdered alcohol can be consumed like a regular alcoholic beverage. The  ease in which it can be concealed and transported raises serious concerns about  underage drinking and the potential increase in liability costs for California  business owners.
Statewide health officials agree the risks are simply not  worth it: "Powdered alcohol is a product that is ripe for abuse, and can  easily be marketed to children," says Kat DeBurgh, MPH, executive director  of the Health Officers Association of California. "From a public health  point of view, powdered alcohol is unsafe for California's communities. The  time to act is now."
Several  Powdered alcohol products have been approved by the  Treasury Department's Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau (TTB) and can be  legally sold and purchased in the United States. Widespread concerns from  public health and law enforcement officials have prompted similar powdered  alcohol bans in 25 states so far. Assemblymember Irwin is working closely with  former Senate minority leader Senator Bob Huff on a companion measure that will  be introduced in the Senate.
###
Assemblymember  Jacqui Irwin represents California’s 44th Assembly District, which includes the communities of  Camarillo, Casa Conejo, Channel Islands Beach, El Rio, Lake Sherwood, Moorpark,  Oak Park, Oxnard, Port Hueneme, Santa Rosa Valley, Thousand Oaks, and Westlake  Village.
CONTACT:
Morgan Culbertson, 805-822-9694