Two bills proposed would encourage improved mental health practices and provide legal assistance to members of military
SACRAMENTO
– Two assembly bills authored by Assemblymember Jacqui Irwin (D-Thousand Oaks) have been approved by Senate committees and await further review. The first, AB 2273, would remove a barrier to active duty military seeking treatment for mental health issues. The second, AB 2085, calls for the establishment of an Office of Military Legal Assistance to expand the legal resources for current service members.
AB 2273 was proposed to address the high rates of suicide among troops and veterans. According to the Iraq Afghanistan Veterans of America, many service members do not seek care for fear that a mental health diagnosis might negatively affect their careers.
“Those fears are not unfounded,” said Assemblymember Irwin, who also chairs the Veterans Affairs Committee. “Under the current Uniform Code of Military Justice, our service members can be criminally prosecuted in military courts for an attempt at suicide and that can be a barrier to members seeking help.” If passed, AB 2273 would remove the threat of prosecution, while also calling for a proactive approach in providing those individuals with resources and assistance. This would ultimately contribute to a more open discussion on mental health for the benefit of all service members and those around them.
A second bill, AB 2085, has received strong support in both the Assembly and the Senate. The bill calls for the creation of the Office of Military Legal Assistance, which would help connect service members with lawyers who provide free service to military. Current legal services for troops are limited to the military judicial system. “While pro bono programs exist to help our servicemen, they cannot support all the needs of California’s service members alone,” explained the Assemblymember. Examples of legal challenges faced by service members include reemployment, landlord/tenant issues, family law, naturalization, and immigration issues, among others.
Both bills must pass through the Senate Appropriations Committee before they move forward for a final vote on the Senate Floor.
CONTACT: