Sacramento, CA –
Today, Assemblymember Cecilia Aguiar-Curry (D – Winters) was appointed by Assembly Speaker Anthony Rendon (D-Paramount) to Chair the Assembly Committee on Local Government for the 2017-18 legislative session.
“I want to thank Speaker Rendon for the honor to be part of his legislative leadership team,” said Assemblymember Aguiar-Curry. “And, I’m appreciative that the Speaker is giving the women in our caucus important roles in this institution.”  Aguiar-Curry added, “As a product of local government, I look forward to helping our State and local governments cooperate to strengthen our partnerships and help our communities thrive.”
Prior to serving in the Assembly, Aguiar-Curry was an active leader in her local community and region. She first served on the Winters planning commission and was then elected to the city council, where she most recently served as the first female Mayor. As Mayor, Aguiar-Curry oversaw critical infrastructure and community development projects, worked to improve local schools, helped build senior housing, and promoted the region as an agricultural and food innovation hub.
In addition to her role as mayor, Aguiar-Curry served on the Board of Directors for the Sacramento Council of Governments, as Chair of the Yolo Housing Commission, and Chair of the Yolo County Water Association. She has been an active participant on many other local and regional committees.
The primary jurisdiction of the Assembly Committee on Local Government includes: General Plan, land use, housing element, local agency formation commissions (LAFCO), city and county organization and powers, special district governance, special taxes, Public Records Act, local government finance, joint powers authorities, military base reuse, state mandates, county clerks/recorders, and civil grand juries.
Cecilia Aguiar-Curry represents California’s 4th Assembly District, which includes all or portions of Colusa, Lake, Napa, Yolo, Solano, and Sonoma Counties.
CONTACT:
John Ferrera, 916-402-8900