SACRAMENTO
—
Today, Assemblymember Dr. Joaquin Arambula (D-Fresno) held the  first of a three-part roundtable discussion titled, “Advancing Latino  Health: Are California Medical Schools Meeting the Needs of the Latino  Community?”
The discussion focused on issues related to  health disparities in the Latino community and  the roles that certain barriers play into  Latinos’ lack of health insurance including language, religion,  and fear of exposing immigration status.
"I have witnessed the shortage of primary care  doctors and the challenges faced by underserved communities in areas like  the Central Valley," said Assemblymember Arambula.  "The Valley  has about half the number of doctors per 100,000 people compared to places  like the Bay Area.  I believe it is important to begin addressing the  growing shortage of primary care doctors and I hope these roundtables will  result in some concrete solutions.”
Panelists discussed how to combat the    shortage of primary care doctors in underserved areas of California, the    possibility of bringing a medical school to the Central    Valley to alleviate health disparities, and how to improve the cultural    competency of doctors to improve health outcomes.
The goal of the    roundtable discussions is to establish a comprehensive holistic effort between legislators,    health systems, insurance providers, and key community stakeholders to identify    the gaps and disparities of access to health    care among Latinos and creating real-world solutions to    improve Latino health.
The first of the three roundtables was held    in the Governor's Conference Room in the State Capitol.
Today's participants    included:
Senator Ed    Hernandez (D- San Gabriel)
Dr. Hieu T.    Tran (Dean, California Northstate University)
Dr. José Arévalo (Latino    Physicians of California)
Dustin    Corcoran (CEO, California Medical Association)
Dr. Tino Bernadett (Board Member,    UCSF Medical School)
Dr. Stephen    Lockhart (Chief Medical Officer, Sutter Health)
Dr. Patrick Courneya (Executive    Vice President, Kaiser Foundation Hospitals)
Dr. Joseph    Martel (CEO, Martel Eye Medical Group)
Dr. Hector    Flores (Board Member, Blue Shield of    California)
Dr. Cathryn L. Nation, M.D, (Associate    Vice President UC Health)
The next    roundtable panel will be held in Fresno in September.