Camarillo, Calif., July 6, 2016— After years of work and  planning, CSU Channel Islands (CI) is announcing the launch of its own  Engineering Program.
President Richard R. Rush and Assemblymember Jacqui Irwin  (D—Thousand Oaks) will make the formal announcement on July 20 from 4 to 5:30  p.m. in Sierra Hall on the CI campus.
“We could not be more proud to announce the addition of an  engineering program at CI,” said President Richard R. Rush. “This University  exists to serve the needs of the surrounding community, and now CI can deliver  quality graduates to fill hundreds of engineering jobs available each year in  Ventura County. On a personal note, I consider it privilege to welcome this  long-anticipated program before my last day as President of this University.”
Rush, who retires on Aug. 8, worked with Irwin as she sought  support in Sacramento.
Locally, Rush met with community leaders who stressed the  need for an engineering program in Ventura County.
After Irwin was elected in 2014, the two began laying the  groundwork to meet that need.
In 2012, University officials conducted a needs assessment  study and discovered that about half of Ventura County companies planned to  hire engineers. In addition, the state Employment Development Department  indicated that almost 300 new engineers are needed any given year in Ventura  County.
“I really pushed it last year in the Assembly,” Irwin said.  “I was able to talk to budget chairs about the need in Ventura County. We have  a military base and all of these companies in need of qualified engineers. But  what really made the argument is that Channel Islands is heavily female and has  a significant Latino population and both of those groups are under-represented  in the STEM (science, technology, engineering, math) fields.”
In May of 2015, Irwin proposed that $1.5 million be  allocated with roughly $500,000 per year used to cover three years of start-up  costs, such as hiring faculty members and lab support. In June, the state  legislature approved the use of $500,000 in the $117.2 billion state budget for  CI to begin its engineering program.