SACRAMENTO – $22 million in funding for the UC Innovation  and Entrepreneurship Initiative proposed by Assemblymember Jacqui Irwin  (D-Thousand Oaks) has been included in the 2016-17 budget signed by Governor  Brown.
Irwin’s legislation, which has been touted as a “Job Creator” by the  California Chamber of Commerce, will implement the funding.
“Our research universities are a tremendous asset to  California not only in the talented workforce produced, but also the innovation  that sparks start-up businesses and local economic growth,” said Assemblymember  Irwin. “Put simply, this Initiative will convert research and science into  products that benefit society, and I am thrilled to see the Legislature come to  an agreement on this investment which will provide returns to California many  times over.”
Assemblymember Irwin introduced the proposal earlier this  year, citing the vital role that business incubators play in converting our  taxpayer funded research into new businesses, high-paying jobs, and the future  of California’s economic development. Under the UC Innovation and  Entrepreneurship Initiative, California will invest up to $2.2 million at each  UC campus to start or expand business incubators that support efforts to bring  research innovations to market. This funding will improve the  entrepreneurial resources at each campus such as laboratory space and  equipment, proof of concept grants, business training, and industry mentorship  to help start-ups overcome early obstacles and attract private sector  investors.
“Assemblymember  Irwin affirms the critical importance of funding that would enable UC campuses  to build upon its existing efforts to support innovation and entrepreneurship  that will foster job creation and economic growth in California,” said UC  President Janet Napolitano. “By investing in UC, California invests in  California’s future.”
The University of California is a significant source of  technology, talent, and support for new companies forming in California. There  are currently 16 UC-run business incubators across the UC campuses that have  been a breeding ground for successful business and game-changing innovations.  In 2014 alone, active UC startups based in California employed over 19,000  Californians and brought in more than $14 billion in revenue.  Since 1980, 843 companies have formed by  commercializing UC technology; and 84% of these are still located in  California.
Assemblymember Irwin’s website:
http://asmdc.org/irwin