Health disparity data, medical  interpreters are key asks of Budget Subcommittee
(SACRAMENTO)
– Newly elected Assemblymember  Dr. Joaquin Arambula (D – Fresno) is requesting budget funding for a  program intended to identify health disparities by race, ethnicity and language  data.
“I’ve  seen firsthand the health disparities that exist,” said Dr. Arambula. “The data  we collect will help guide future solutions to this major medical issue.”
Arambula  made the requests before the Budget Subcommittee on Health & Human Services  to spearhead an effort by the California Latino Legislative Caucus to address  these issues across the state. Specifically, he requested $200,000 be spent  toward collecting information about race/ethnicity, language, sexual  orientation and gender identity data under Covered California’s proposed 2017  Qualified Healthcare Standards. Seventy-eight percent of people under Medi-Cal  managed care enrollment comprise communities of color. This wide range of  diversity provides Medi-Cal with a tremendous opportunity to use its power as  the country’s largest Medicaid program, and the state’s largest insurer, to  drive changes toward the identification and reduction of health disparities.
In  addition, Dr. Arambula also asked that $15 million be invested in a program  administered by the Department of Healthcare Services to provide and reimburse  medical interpretation services to Medi-Cal beneficiaries who are Limited  English Proficient (LEP) patients.
“Too  many patients in my emergency room had difficulty communicating,” noted  Arambula. “I have seen the deficiencies in language services available to  patients who need them. This proposal will help thousands in my district alone,  and countless others statewide.”
It  is estimated that six million patients in Medi-Cal need access to an  interpreter. Forty percent of Medi-Cal patients report a language other than  English as their primary language based on 2014 data.
Arambula’s  proposals are currently being considered by the Assembly Budget Committee. He  also discussed both issues with Gov. Jerry Brown during a recent meeting.
More  information is available at
www.asmdc.org/arambula
.
Below  are links to audio of Assemblymember Arambula:
Dr.  Arambula presents his budget proposal to the Assembly’s Budget Sub 1 – Health  and Human Services Committee. (1:27)
Your browser does not support the audio element.
Dr.  Arambula explains the dangers of not having medical interpreters. (:35)
Your browser does not support the audio element.
Dr.  Arambula says children are often the ones who must be the interpreter for their  parents. (:23)
Your browser does not support the audio element.
Dr.  Arambula explains how much money is needed to provide medical interpreters.  (:20)
Your browser does not support the audio element.