CARSON, CA
– Fifty-five community leaders gathered on Saturday, February 6, 2015 at the Double Tree Hilton Hotel in Carson, California for the 64th Assembly District Commission inaugural swearing-in.
The 64th AD Commission, the brainchild of Assemblymember Mike A. Gipson (D-Carson), will convene on a regular basis to address and report on district-wide issues affecting the constituents.
“These dedicated men and women will help to move the 64th Assembly District forward. They will be my eyes and ears in the district,” said Assemblymember Gipson.
There were over 400 applicants and 55 chosen. The 64th Assembly District Commissioners are:
Youth Commission:
Cheryl Greer-Davis, Kimberly McKenzie, Keesha Hollier-Gates, Elizabeth Perez, Jimmie Johnson and Richard Bis.
Education Commission:
Lucilia Hooper, Lera Ashe, Jose Fernandez, Robert Jones, Diana Padilla, Bruce Boyden, Linda Bassett, Leandra Robinson and Stacey Michaels.
Higher Educ. Commission:
Leticia Vasquez, Jimmie Thompson, Sandra Sanchez, Linda Bassett, Norris Curl and Lizette Arevalo.
Immigration Commission:
Juan Gonzales, Diana Padilla, Luz Hernández and Alma Ramirez.
Water Commission:
Juanita Wright, Randy Taylor and Irene Shandell.
Veterans Commission:
Nelson Williams, Irene Barraza, Ernie Aguilar, Donald Matthews and Jovanni Soto.
Public Safety Commission:
Jasper Jackson and James Bolden.
Senior Commission
: Barbara Thompson, Pat Hellerud, Kimberly Craven and Dean Jones.
Business Commission:
Deborah Anderson, Eric Paulsen, Tiffani Clegg, Boris Sztorch, Arnie Corlin, Charlotte Brimmer, Lucia Moreno-Linares, Dan Hoffman and John Yeressian.
Women’s Commission:
Jacquelyn Badejo, Lisa Berglund and Sheryl Webb Mosby.
Health Commission:
Dr. Wilbert Jordan, Lanetta Dobson, Carl Lewis, Rafael Garcia.
“Our office does an excellent job of outreach but I want to do even more to meet the needs of the residents and families,” Gipson stated. “I can’t do it alone and my team can’t do it alone. I am confident that these dedicated citizens will successfully step up to the challenge.”
Mike A. Gipson represents the 64th Assembly District which includes the cities of Carson, Compton, Gardena, Harbor Gateway, Lynwood, North Long Beach, Rancho Dominguez, South Los Angeles, Torrance, Watts/Willowbrook and Wilmington.
CONTACT:
Kathy Williamson, Communications Director, Kathy.Williamson@asm.ca.gov, (310) 324-6408