Funds  Awarded Through Basic Skills Transformation Program Championed by  Assemblymember Irwin
SACRAMENTO  –Today the California Community College Board of Governors approved grant funds  for 43 California Community Colleges (CCCs) through the
Community College  Basic Skills and Student Outcomes Transformation Program
. Assemblymember  Jacqui Irwin (D-Thousand Oaks), whose legislation created this program a year  ago, announced that Oxnard College, Moorpark College, and Ventura College are  all among the applicants selected and will receive $1.5 Million each to help  improve their basic skills student success rates.
“Today’s  announcement marks an important victory for our state and an even bigger  victory for Ventura County.” said Assemblymember Irwin. “These funds will  provide much needed support for the faculty and staff who work tirelessly to  help Ventura County’s community college students succeed,” said Irwin.
Program  Background
Over  70% of students enrolling in community colleges as first-time students are  deemed unprepared and in need of basic skills courses. National research has  found that the more semesters of remediation students are required to take, the  less likely they are to complete college-level English and math courses, which  are needed for degrees, credentials, or transfer. In the early reform efforts  represented by the Basic Skills and Student Outcomes Transformation Program,  students’ completion rates for college-level English courses more than double,  and more than four times for college-level math in comparison to students in  traditional remediation.
Assemblymember  Irwin’s bill, AB 770, led to $60 million in funding for the Program in the  2015-16 budget. This program assists community colleges in delivering basic  skills instruction by adopting or expanding the use of evidence-based models of  placement, remediation, and student support that accelerate the progress of  underprepared students. (Program  Website:
http://extranet.cccco.edu/Divisions/AcademicAffairs/BasicSkillsEnglishasaSecondLanguage.aspx
)
Local  Impact
In  Ventura County, student success rates for those that begin in remedial math or  English are roughly thirty percent. None of the three community college  campuses in Ventura County have had the opportunity to fully implement these innovative  practices. On February 5th, Assemblymember Irwin held a Budget  Subcommittee hearing at Oxnard College to raise awareness of this funding  opportunity for local community colleges and highlight the importance of  improving basic skills outcomes.
All  three community colleges in Ventura County were among the 43 campuses that  received grants through the Program. “This is a tremendous opportunity to make  a targeted investment in our community college system that will have a long  term impact. This funding will provide more effective instruction for  underprepared students, and ultimately, more college graduates in Ventura  County.” remarked Irwin.
“The  broken remedial education system that keeps students from reaching their full  potential is a waste of human capital. But under the exemplary leadership of  Assemblymember Irwin last year, California made a historic investment to  dramatically improve student success in remedial education. This investment  will be transformative for hundreds of thousands of bright students across the  state, including students in the Assemblymember’s very own district, whose  dream of a college degree can now be reality,” said Michele Siqueiros,  president of the Campaign for College Opportunity.
Official  Award Announcement:
http://californiacommunitycolleges.cccco.edu/Portals/0/DocDownloads/PressReleases/MAY2016/PR-Basic-Skills-Grant-BOG-5-16-16-FINAL.pdf