SACRAMENTO – In an effort to protect  children against widespread identity theft, Assemblymember Jacqui Irwin  (D-Thousand Oaks) today introduced Assembly Bill 1553 into the California State  Legislature.
AB 1553 will require credit agencies to allow parents or guardians  to create and then freeze a credit report for a minor child. A majority of credit agencies do not offer  this service to California residents. AB 1553 will make it mandatory for all  credit agencies to help parents and guardians freeze a credit report for their  children.
“Identity theft is a huge problem  that can wreak havoc on a person’s financial livelihood,” said Assemblymember  Irwin, Chair of the Assembly Select Committee on Cybersecurity. “Many of those  whose identities have been stolen at a young age do not realize their credit  has been compromised until they are much older, for example when they apply for  student loans or for a credit card.”
A recent report by Carnegie Mellon’s  CyLab found that “10.2% of the children in the report had someone else using  their Social Security number – 51 times higher than the 0.2% rate for adults in  the same population.”  Identity thieves  target children because they have clean credit reports and will be less likely  to discover fraudulent use of their identities because they are unlikely to  monitor credit reports as often as adults do.
One of the most effective ways to  prevent identity theft has been to freeze a credit report.  Such a freeze prevents someone from opening  an account with a frozen social security number unless the owner of the number  authorizes it by “thawing” their credit report.   However, this strategy is difficult for children because a person must  have a credit report in order to freeze it and most children do not have one.
Currently, there are 22 states that allow parents, legal  guardians or those representing minors to place a security freeze on a minor’s  credit report. “As an elected  representative and Chair of the Select Committee on Cybersecurity, it is my  duty to ensure that we are protecting Californians most valuable, private  information,” remarked Assemblymember Irwin. “The fact that our children are  especially vulnerable to these attacks is unacceptable and I urge my colleagues  to enact this important defense against child identity theft,” said Irwin.