Assemblymember Irwin  Initiative Approved by Assembly Budget Committee
SACRAMENTO – An initiative to invest $22 Million in UC-run  business incubators was included in the version of the budget approved by the  Assembly Budget Committee today.  The proposal will be consider by the  Joint Budget Conference Committee next week.
Assemblymember Jacqui Irwin (D-Thousand Oaks) introduced the UC  Innovation and Entrepreneurship Initiative (AB 2664) earlier this year, citing  the vital role that business incubators play in converting our taxpayer funded  research into new businesses, new high-paying jobs, and the future of  California’s economic development.
“Our UC business incubators have been a tremendous asset to  California not only in the talented workforce it produces, but also the  innovation that sparks start-up businesses and local economic growth.” said  Assemblymember Irwin. “As our state and economy continues to expand and evolve,  these business incubators do not have the space and resources to meet demand.  This funding will lead to new innovative businesses and provide returns to  California many times over.”
The initiative would provide a targeted investment of $2 million  per year, for three years at each UC campus and the Lawrence Berkeley National  Laboratory to start or expand business incubators that bring research  innovations to market. This funding would be used to establish a robust  innovation infrastructure at each campus, providing basics such as incubator  space, legal services, and entrepreneur training to attract private sector  investors.
The University of California is a significant source of  technology, talent, and support for new companies forming in California. There  are currently 16 UC-run business incubators across the UC campuses that have  been a breeding ground for successful business and game-changing innovations.  Some incubators are in early stages of development that grow quickly with an  infusion of funding.  Since 1980, 843 companies have formed for the  purpose of commercializing UC technology; 84% of these are still located in  California.​