SACRAMENTO –
Today Governor Brown signed a bill by Assemblymember Marc Berman (D-Palo Alto) that will allow for continued testing of green trucking technologies. Assembly Bill 669 reauthorizes the California Department of Transportation (Caltrans), in coordination with the California Highway Patrol (CHP), to test Cooperative Adaptive Cruise Control (CACC) technologies, including Driver Assistive Truck Platooning.
“AB 669 continues the state’s recognition that technology can simultaneously better the lives of Californians and protect the environment,” said Assemblymember Berman. “Platooning will make our roads safer, improve traffic conditions, and reduce greenhouse gas emissions.”
With a driver present and in control, CACC technologies allow trucks to safely follow each other with less than 100 feet between vehicles by syncing acceleration and braking. As a result of this coordination, platooning enhances safety and lessens traffic.
Additionally, Caltrans reported that CACC technologies can reduce fuel consumption by 10 to 15 percent. This finding is consistent with independent testing by the North American Council for Freight Efficiency which found that platooning could lead to 4.5% fuel savings for the lead truck and 10% fuel savings for the following truck. The good’s movement sector accounts for half the state’s diesel consumption, meaning fuel savings will have a significant, positive impact on air quality.
"Thanks to Assemblymember Berman's leadership and the support of CalTrans and the CHP, AB 669 will enable continued on-road testing of truck platooning technology in California, thereby making possible greater safety and efficiency benefits for trucks operating on our roadways," said Steve Boyd, Co-Founder & Vice President of External Affairs at Peloton Technology.
AB 669 provides Caltrans an additional two years to build upon their current findings and to ensure safe deployment of CACC technologies. Without this legislation, Caltrans’ authorization to test CACC technologies would have ended January 1, 2018.
Contact: Kaitlin Curry, (916) 319-2024