SACRAMENTO –
Assemblymember Jacqui Irwin (D-Thousand Oaks) once again partnered with the Oxnard Police Activities League (PAL) and the Ventura County Health Care Agency to host the third annual K-12 Resource Fair at the Oxnard PAL Gym. The fair brought together local organizations, schools, parents and teachers to gain knowledge of programs available to help students succeed at all educational levels.
“As a member of the Assembly Higher Education Committee, creating and providing a pathway into higher education is a vital and important step for students’ success,” said Assemblymember Jacqui Irwin. “This resource fair is one of the most successful programs that my office hosts. For the past three years, we have been able to provide not just students, but also teachers and all families with crucial information to assist them for the upcoming school year,” she added.
The fair featured representatives from Oxnard City College, University of California Santa Barbara, Children’s Resource Center, and vocational and job training programs. The resource fair and the participating organizations assisted in making education transitions a successful step for those in attendance.
“It is important to make sure all children have access to the tools that help them succeed, this event allows us the opportunity to ensure these children start the school year on a high note” said Julie Estrada, Recreation Coordinator for Oxnard PAL. “What is just as important though is providing parents with the information to help their child succeed, whether it is tutoring, classes, or afterschool programs that provide a fun and safe environment for youth, until their parents get out of work.”
An exciting part of the event was the back to school supply give away for children in grades K – 6. Hundreds of families participated and students from K-6 grade received a limited supply of backpacks on a first come, first served basis filled with essential school supplies to ensure their students’ success in the coming school year.
The event was hosted at the Oxnard PAL Gym in Oxnard.