SACRAMENTO, CA
– Today, Assemblywoman Blanca E. Rubio (D-Baldwin Park) announced that Governor Edmund G. Brown signed Assembly Bill 557, legislation to provide temporary homelessness assistance, through CalWORKs, for families who are trying to escape a domestically violent environment.
“I have seen first-hand the devastating impact domestic violence has on families and communities—I know we can and will do more for women, men and children who need help escaping their violent environment, and I applaud Governor Brown for taking action today to help stop the cycle of abuse,” said Assemblywoman Rubio.
AB 557 makes changes to the CalWORKs program to improve outcomes for parents with children fleeing domestic violence by tracking important data regarding the number of domestic violence survivors accessing the CalWORKs program. Additionally, the bill enables the state to respond to the immediate needs of these survivors by requiring the Department of Social Services (DSS) to submit a report to the Legislature on the number of applicants, and a summary of actions taken by DSS to address those survivors’ specific needs.
“With enhanced support from CalWORKs, victims across the state will have better access to immediate housing options and domestic violence resources in their time of crisis,” reported Kathy Moore, Executive Director of the California Partnership to End Domestic Violence, and co-sponsor of the bill. “By passing AB 557, California's policy leaders showed their commitment to victim safety and helping to grow loving families who thrive in healthy communities throughout the state.”
Spokeswoman Jessica Bartholow of the Western Center on Law and Poverty added, "An estimated 40% of homeless women are fleeing domestic abuse and AB 557 will help by preventing homelessness for those parents. We were so proud to sponsor this legislation and look forward to working with Chairwoman Rubio on a successful implementation and to ensure even stronger protections for low-income domestic violence survivors in the years to come."
The 48th Assembly District is comprised of the cities of Azusa, Baldwin Park, Bradbury, City of Industry, Covina, Duarte, El Monte, Glendora, Irwindale, Monrovia, West Covina, and the San Gabriel Valley unincorporated areas of Los Angeles County, including Bassett, Charter Oak, Citrus, East Arcadia, Ramona, Valinda and West La Puente.
Contact:
Christina A. Romero
(916) 319-2048
AB 557 signed by gov 10.12.17.pdf
###
Website of Assemblywoman Blanca E. Rubio: www.asm.ca.gov/Rubio
AB 557 signed by gov 10.12.17.pdf