SACRAMENTO –
Assemblymember Marc Berman (D-Palo Alto) released the following statement in response to passage of the 2017-18 state budget:
Today the Legislature approved a budget that is a strong reflection of California’s values and priorities. This budget allocates funds for critical transportation and infrastructure projects, increases Prop 98 education funding by $3.2 billion and increases enrollment on our UC and CSU campuses for California students, and expands the Earned-Income Tax Credit, all of which will strengthen our communities and our economy.
I’m particularly excited that we were able to secure funding for two computer science initiatives – the development of both computer science education standards and a computer science strategic implementation advisory panel – which will encourage and support schools to expand and diversify access to computer science education so that students gain the skills they need for good-paying jobs in the 21
st
Century Economy.
The budget also includes $4 million for San Mateo County Resource Conservation District’s Butano Channel Restoration and Resiliency Project. This funding will directly impact constituents in the 24
th
Assembly District by addressing annual flooding that shuts down the main road into Pescadero after even the smallest rainfall due to decades of sediment build-up in the marsh.
This is also a fiscally prudent budget. By increasing our Regular Reserve by $0.8 billion and our Rainy Day Fund by $1.8 billion, California now has the largest reserves in history and is better prepared to weather the next economic downturn.
As strong as this budget is, we were unable to address all of the challenges we face. For example, the budget does not address housing affordability that is desperately needed in the 24
th
Assembly District, and does not extend California’s Cap and Trade program to combat climate change. While we still have plenty of work to do, today’s approved budget addresses some of the real challenges facing my constituents and all Californians.
Assemblymember Marc Berman represents the 24
th
Assembly District, which includes southern San Mateo County and northern Santa Clara County in the heart of the Silicon Valley. Website of Assemblymember Marc Berman:
www.assembly.ca.gov/Berman
. Official headshot can be found
here
.
Contact: Kaitlin Curry, (916) 319-2024