Annual Ceremony held in recognition of Women’s History Month
SACRAMENTO – Today, Assemblywoman Quirk-Silva (D-Orange County) and the California State Assembly honored 4
th
District PTA President Beverly Berryman as the 65th Assembly District Woman of the Year. Assemblywoman Quirk-Silva recognized the Orange County leader for her accomplishments as a strong advocate for chilhood development and education during the annual Assembly Floor ceremony.
“Beverly Berryman has consistently demonstrated her commitment to ensuring that all children receive the top-quality education they deserve,” said Assemblywoman Quirk-Silva. “I am proud to recognize Beverly for her leadership in making sure that students have every opportunity to succeed and achieve their educational goals.”
With her background in Human Resources and Finance, Berryman continues to facilitate thoughtful discussions, make smart budget decisions, and represent the children and families that may not always be present. She has volunteered within the educational system for over 20 years, having been PTA President at the local school, city, and county levels, worked with School Site Councils, and Legislative Advocacy Groups.
“I am honored to be recognized by someone who is as passionate and is as invested in children and education as I am. I represent a community of caring and engaged people that truly care about the children of this state. I am honored and privileged to receive this award,” said Mrs. Berryman. “I’m especially honored because Assemblywoman Quirk-Silva is someone who quietly works to advocate for teachers in our community and for a quality education for the children of California.”
Beverly Berryman was elected to the Fullerton School Board in November 2006 and currently serves as the Board’s Vice President. She is President of the 4
th
District PTA, and also serves as Volunteer Coordinator for Crittenton Services for Children and Families.
Our office is also accepting nominations for the "Women of Distinction” recognition ceremony. I would like your help in identifying exceptional women from our district. The ceremony will take place this March, commonly recognized as "Women's History Month."
The deadline to nominate someone is March 11, 2017 and forms can be submitted via post mail, email, online, fax, or in-person. A reception honoring the 65th Assembly District Women of Distinction will be held in the Fullerton Public Library on March 25, at 2 p.m.
If you would like to nominate a Woman of Distinction, please visit my
webpage
, or download and print the following
submission form
.
###
Assemblywoman Sharon Quirk represents the 65th Assembly District, which includes the Orange County communities of Anaheim, Buena Park, Cypress, Fullerton, Garden Grove, La Palma, and Stanton.