Sacramento, CA
– Today, Assemblymember Dr. Joaquin Arambula (D-Fresno) asked the California State Assembly to adjourn in memory of the victims of this week’s tragic shootings in Fresno.  He spoke about each of the four victims of the horrible events that began last Thursday with the shooting of an unarmed security guard and ended with three more innocent individuals being shot and killed on Tuesday.  Below are the remarks Assemblymember Arambula delivered to the Assembly:
“I rise with a heavy heart and on behalf of a stunned community to adjourn in memory of the four victims in the Fresno shooting rampage that began last Thursday night with the killing of Carl Williams, an unarmed security guard at Motel 6 in Fresno, and then came to a head on Tuesday morning in central Fresno with the killing of 3 more innocent victims – Zackary Randalls, Mark Gassett and David Martin Jackson.
Carl Williams was a 25-year-old security guard who was shot and killed after an argument with the suspect who was visiting a woman at the Motel 6.  Williams had worked for the last two years as a supervisor for Monument Security.  Carl also worked as a manager at a local Toys R’ Us – having just been promoted to that position two weeks ago.  He was working two jobs, in order to save enough money to buy a house with his girlfriend. Carl has been described by his colleagues as a “class act.”  The Williams' family says the community lost a good man when Carl died and his family is devastated by the loss.  He was a resident of Clovis.
Zackary Randalls, known as Zack was 34 and the father of a 3 year old girl and 4 year old boy and lived in Fresno.  He was a loving husband of 8 years and adored his wife Katie. Zack was on his first ride-along in his new position with PG&E when the tragedy occurred, a job he had just recently started and was excited to spend his first day outside the classroom.  Zack was a kind, funny, loving man whose charitable ways and good nature made him close to those that had the honor of knowing him.
Mark Gassett was 37, the father of two children, and lived in Fresno.  He was a graduate of Central High School – the same high school my wife attended.  Although he had recently fallen on hard times, his friends and family said that had recently had been working to improve his lot and he would give you the shirt off his back…that was just the kind of guy he was.
David Martin Jackson, 58, of Fresno was gunned down outside the office of the Catholic Charities—a tragic misfortune of being at the wrong place at the wrong time - waiting for the bus after doing a few errands with his friend and roommate.  He was a veteran and described by friends as generous even with what little he had.  He was preceded in death by his wife.
The senseless loss of these four men has left my community – the close knit community of Fresno County – searching for answers.  This unimaginable act was carried out because the perpetrator fostered so much hate in his heart and hid behind the pretense of religion.  Many faith leader came together to hold a visual where a sign said we need to light a candle instead of scream at darkness.  My community knows that this act was an act of cowardice and that we are better than this.
The community of Fresno is a strong working class community and we will come together and support the families of the victims of this unthinkable tragedy.  Carl, Zack, Mark, and David live on in the spirits of their loved ones and those who knew them best.
I ask that you put these four men and their families in your prayers and that we adjourn in their memory.”