SACRAMENTO –
Assemblymember Marc Berman (D-Palo Alto) authored ten bills that will go into effect on January 1, 2018. The legislation is related to a variety of issues, including the environment, education, food security, elections, court efficiency, and victims’ rights.
Environment
Assembly Bill 184
extends the use of the Planning for Sea-Level Rise Database, a critical tool needed by local and state governments to coordinate and respond effectively to rising sea levels.
Assembly Bill 669
allows the Caltrans and the California Highway Patrol to continue testing Cooperative Adaptive Cruise Control technologies, including Driver Assistive Truck Platooning. These green-trucking technologies improve road safety and reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
Assembly Bill 733
permits local governments to fund climate change adaptation projects using Enhanced Infrastructure Financing Districts. Providing communities with a financing tool is imperative as drought, flooding, sea-level rise, and wildfires threaten communities across the state.
Assembly Bill 1294
reaffirms California’s commitment to post-consumer recycled plastic by preserving a truth-in-marketing law for plastic food containers. Accurate labeling on plastic food containers is important to both consumers who choose to buy and manufacturers who invest in recycled plastic.
Education
Assembly Bill 868
promotes vocational training opportunities to enhance California’s workforce by eliminating duplicative regulations for community-based nonprofit organizations.
Food Security
Assembly Bill 323
allows County Human Services Agencies to connect families to emergency food resources using a 2-1-1 telephone referral service. Permitting counties to employ this technology ensures that those in need have timely access to reliable information about emergency food providers.
Elections
Assembly Bill 606
modernizes the state voter information guide and directs the Secretary of State to develop a new tool to electronically communicate with voters about upcoming elections – such as important dates and deadlines.
Assembly Bill 1367
strengthens the initiative process by making it a crime for a supervisor or employer to direct or permit a signature gatherer to falsely represent an initiative, referendum, or recall petition. Previously, only signature gatherers could be penalized, even in cases when they mislead or misinform voters as a result of poor training or at the direction of a supervisor or employer.
Court Efficiency
Assembly Bill 644
furthers California’s effort to make legal proceedings more efficient.
Assembly Bill 976
modernizes California’s court electronic-filing and service process.
Sexual Assault Survivors’ Bill of Rights
Assemblymember Marc Berman also joint-authored
Assembly Bill 1312
with Assemblymember Lorena Gonzalez Fletcher. The Sexual Assault Survivors’ Bill of Rights provides victims with clarity about their rights as a result of stronger notification requirements from law enforcement and health professionals, codifies new rights such as the right to free contraception, and establishes minimum preservation standards for rape kits.
Contact: Kaitlin Curry, (916) 319-2024