With Trump in office, Assemblymember Muratsuchi’s bill meant to ensure such discrimination never happens again in California
Torrance, CA –
On Wednesday
,
Assembly Bill (AB) 491, which establishes $3 million in education grants regarding the World War II Japanese American incarceration, passed the Assembly Floor.  Specifically, the bill will extend funding for the California Civil Liberties Public Education Program, run by the State Library, through an appropriation of $3 million in General Funds that will be distributed over the next three years.
This bill will help to ensure that a terrible part of our State’s history will not repeat itself.
“The World War II Japanese American incarceration began with one presidential executive order, much like the ones that President Trump has been issuing.  We should never target communities on the basis of national origin or faith.  The parallels are striking between now and 1942, especially with the intolerant political rhetoric coming out of our nation’s Capital,” said Muratsuchi.  “These parallels highlight the urgent need to ensure that all Americans learn the lessons of the Japanese American incarceration.”
Barbara Takei of the Tule lake Committee, a non-profit organization that represents Japanese American survivors and descendants of those imprisoned during WWII at the Tule Lake concentration camp in Northern California and works to preserve the historic site, supports the bill.
“Given the echoes of 1942 and the rising climate of fear and racism targeting Muslims, immigrants and refugees, the work of the California Civil Liberties Public Education Program is more important than ever.  To ensure the mistakes of the past are not forgotten and not repeated, we are grateful that you have introduced AB 491 to continue the work of this valuable program.”
Assemblymember Al Muratsuchi represents California’s 66
th
Assembly District, which includes El Camino Village, Gardena, Harbor City, Harbor Gateway, Hermosa Beach, Lomita, Los Angeles, Manhattan Beach, Palos Verdes Estates, Rancho Palos Verdes, Redondo Beach, Rolling Hills, Rolling Hills Estates, Torrance, and West Carson.  He serves as Chairman of the Joint Legislative Audit Committee and the Assembly Select Committee on Aerospace.  He is a member of the Assembly Committees on Appropriations, Natural Resources, Utilities and Energy, and Veterans Affairs.