SACRAMENTO – Assemblymember Jacqui Irwin (D-Thousand Oaks)  was honored by the California Enlisted Association of the National Guard (CAL  EANGUS) with the prestigious “Golden Bear Award” for her impressive work  improving the lives of California’s National Guard members.
"Assemblywomen Irwin has demonstrated herself to be a  passionate advocate, not only for the Soldiers and Airmen of the California  National Guard, but to all Service members and Veterans across our great  State,” said CAL EANGUS president Marsha Adams. “CAL EANGUS was honored to show  our appreciation to Assemblywomen Irwin by presenting her with the Golden Bear  Award that recognizes her outstanding service and exceptional contributions to  the well-being of our Service members."
“I’m honored to receive this prestigious award from the enlisted  men and women of the California National Guard,” said Assemblymember Irwin. “Our  duty as legislators is to serve our veterans and active duty personnel with the  same extraordinary commitment they provide our state and country. As the Chair  of the Committee on Veterans Affairs, I look forward to continuing to advocate  for our state’s military personnel and ensure they receive the best services  available.”
The California Enlisted Association of the National Guard is  the premier organization representing California’s enlisted National Guard  members. EANGUS was created in 1970 and is designed to help enlisted members of  the guard have a more active voice in their state governments. They currently  represent members from all 50 states and 5 territories.
Assemblymember Irwin currently serves as the chair of the  Assembly Veterans committee where she has been instrumental in passing key  legislation to improve the day-to-day lives of California’s veterans, active  duty personnel and their families. The Assembly Veterans Committee jurisdiction  includes the Cal-Vet loan program, Department of Veterans Affairs, the National  Guard, state military, and veterans.
As chair of the Veterans Committee, Assemblymember Irwin authored  legislation that secured $5.6 million in state funding for California’s  veterans service officers (VSO’s) to help veterans get connected to the federal  benefits that they have earned. Assemblymember Irwin was also instrumental in  working with the State Auditor, CalVet and the Department of Technology to  improve CalVet’s new electronic patient records system, which at the time was  failing to meet the basic needs of the state’s veterans. She also authored AB  2273 which removed suicide attempts as a punishable offense in accordance with  the military code of justice.
Assemblymember  Irwin’s website:
http://asmdc.org/irwin