Torrance, CA –
Yesterday, in a bipartisan vote, the California State Assembly adopted Assemblymember Al Muratsuchi’s (D-Torrance) HR 47, which officially recognizes June 17, 2017 as International Surfing Day in the State of California, and commends all those who work diligently to protect our state’s beaches and ocean environments.
“Surfing is an iconic California sport, and every year our great state hosts numerous domestic and international surf events, including the International Surf Festival right here in the South Bay,” said Muratsuchi. “As a life-long surfer myself, I am happy to author this resolution to celebrate the importance of the ocean economy and the surfing industry while calling on all surfers in California to unite to raise awareness and show appreciation for our coastal environments.”
International Surfing Day was first established in 2004 by the Surfrider Foundation, to unify surfers from around the world to celebrate the sport of surfing and protect our beach and ocean environment. Since the first International Surfing Day, it has grown to over 200 separate events in 30 different countries.
"Surfrider Foundation's volunteer activist network has spent over 30 years protecting the coast. In California, our 20 chapters work tirelessly to ensure that our beaches are clean and accessible, and that our most special places are protected," said Jennifer Savage, Surfrider Foundation's California policy manager. "But on International Surfing Day, what we want more than anything is to spread the joy and share the love a day at the beach provides."
Assemblymember Al Muratsuchi represents California’s 66
th
Assembly District, which includes El Camino Village, Gardena, Harbor City, Harbor Gateway, Hermosa Beach, Lomita, Los Angeles, Manhattan Beach, Palos Verdes Estates, Rancho Palos Verdes, Redondo Beach, Rolling Hills, Rolling Hills Estates, Torrance, and West Carson.  He serves as Chairman of the Joint Legislative Audit Committee and the Assembly Select Committee on Aerospace.  Muratsuchi is a member of the Assembly Committees on Appropriations, Natural Resources, Budget, Budget Subcommittee 2, Utilities and Energy, and Veterans Affairs.