SACRAMENTO, Calif --- Today, Assemblymember Mike A. Gipson (D-Carson) is announcing the “Straight Outta Compton College” initiative, a letter writing campaign that urges the State Senate to adopt the Assembly’s proposal for $11.3 million in one-time money, along with enrollment stabilization funding, to support the Compton Community College District (CCCD) as the district looks to transition and reestablish Compton Community College (CCC) as an independently accredited institution. Yesterday, the Assembly Budget Committee acted to approve Assemblymember Gipson’s budget request. Now, the proposal will go to the Legislative Budget Conference Committee, where the Assembly and Senate will negotiate and reconcile any remaining differences in their respective budgets.
“The Compton community has come a long way in this endeavor, and we are getting closer and closer to restoring full accreditation each day” said Asm. Gipson. “Providing these one-time monies will ensure a successful conversion while meeting the infrastructure and resource needs of the district.”
The CCCD Board of Trustees was brought under state oversight and lost its governing authority in 2004. In addition, as a result of a review by the Accrediting Commission for Community and Junior Colleges, Compton Community College lost its accreditation in 2005-06. Following a decade of annual reviews by the Fiscal Crisis and Management Assistance Team, it was determined on February 14, 2017, that CCCD had met every standard necessary to regain governing authority and function as an independent board. Now that the District has regained local governance, the college is well on its way towards having its accreditation restored.
“I have always believed in the power of words, especially on paper.” said Asm. Gipson. “The purpose of the letter writing campaign is to engage our constituents in this process. They deserve to have a seat at the table and allow their voices to be heard.”
Assemblymember Gipson is launching a letter writing campaign to urge the State Senate to adopt a one-time funding request of $11,302,425, in addition to enrollment stabilization funding. Already adopted by the Assembly, this allocation will be earmarked to support the transition of the El Camino College Compton Center into Compton Community College.
Compton College Budget Request.pdf