Streamlined construction method will save tax payers up to $20 million, and bring well-paying, middle class jobs to the community
Torrance, CA – Assemblymember Al Muratsuchi’s (D-Torrance) Assembly Bill (AB) 994 unanimously passed the Senate Governance and Finance Committee today.  The bill will allow a much-needed upgrade of the Beach Cities Health District’s (BCHD) campus to be built using a streamlined design-build construction method that will cut costs of construction by as much as 20 percent.  The upgrades include much needed maintenance on the original hospital facility, and construction of an assisted living center for the expanding senior population in the South Bay.
The construction of the facility will also bring many well-paying, middle-class jobs to the South Bay.
“The Beach Cities Health District campus is in urgent need of upgrades.  This bill will enable campus construction of a much-needed assisted living facility for seniors to be completed utilizing a cost-effective construction method called design-build, that will save taxpayers up to $20 million on planned projects,” said Muratsuchi.  “This construction project will also create good, middle-class jobs for the South Bay.”
BCHD is one of the largest and most effective preventive health agencies in the nation. Over the past 60 years, the BCHD campus has evolved into an integrated hub of vital community health services and providers. Their medical facilities are especially integral to the ever-expanding older adult population.
Assemblymember Al Muratsuchi represents California’s 66
th
Assembly District, which includes El Camino Village, Gardena, Harbor City, Harbor Gateway, Hermosa Beach, Lomita, Los Angeles, Manhattan Beach, Palos Verdes Estates, Rancho Palos Verdes, Redondo Beach, Rolling Hills, Rolling Hills Estates, Torrance, and West Carson.  He serves as Chairman of the Joint Legislative Audit Committee and the Assembly Select Committee on Aerospace.  Muratsuchi is a member of the Assembly Committees on Budget, Budget Subcommittee 2, Appropriations, Natural Resources, Utilities and Energy, and Veterans Affairs.