ANAHEIM, CA ГўВҖВ“ Dec 6, 2017 ГўВҖВ“ Anaheim Beautiful welcomed CA District 65 Assemblywoman Sharon Quirk-Silva as the featured guest speaker at the 2017 Holiday Luncheon. Guests enjoyed entertainment by the Kennedy Singers and the organizationГўВҖВҷs quarterly property awards were presented. Priscilla Oropeza, Miss Anaheim Fall Festival Teen Ambassador was on hand to greet members and help with the opportunity drawing.
ГўВҖВңIt was a treat to have Assemblywoman Quirk-Silva attend our luncheon and give us an update on the various issues being discussed in Sacramento, especially those that affect District 65, which includes much of West Anaheim,ГўВҖВқ said Anaheim Beautiful President Sandra Sagert.В  ГўВҖВңIt is important to our organization to keep up on matters that impact residents and business owners throughout the city. We also had a change of location for this quarterГўВҖВҷs luncheon holding the event at Dad Miller Golf Course, which is in the west Anaheim region.ГўВҖВқ
Quirk-Silva provided an overview of current topics including the new gas tax, homelessness, Covered California and the Affordable Care Act and the high housing market. Responding to questions, she also provided information on pending issues such as the establishment of a new VeteransГўВҖВҷ cemetery in South County (AB1453), her proposed moratorium on California State University tuition (AB393) and the challenges of pensions and unfunded liabilities facing the State.
ГўВҖВңAnaheim Beautiful is a powerful organization that works diligently for the Orange County community,ГўВҖВқ said Quirk-Silva. ГўВҖВңEvents like this provide an important platform for sharing vital information and encouraging discussions on topics that impact all of us. I am glad to be involved.ГўВҖВқ
During the luncheon, the quarterly property awards were presented going to Towne Park Brew Co (Commercial) and Bob and Beatriz Sanchez (Residential).В  Sagert also reminded all in attendance about the upcoming deadline (12/8) for nominations for the Anaheim Beautiful Holiday Lights Contest.
Anaheim Beautiful holds three quarterly luncheons as a platform to keep their membership and supporters informed on all they are accomplishing in their efforts to help preserve and protect the beauty of Anaheim.