Sacramento, CA –
This week Governor Brown signed the 2017-2018 California State Budget into law. Among the numerous provisions of the budget are two that Assemblymember Aguiar-Curry (D-Winters) fought for fiercely as they are vitally important to Yolo, Napa, and Lake counties.
The first provision provides $800,000 in critical funding for the reconstruction of the County Road 40 low water bridge that connects Yolo, Napa, and Lake counties. This bridge is vital during the fire season to ensure that emergency services have quick and ready access to northern Yolo County and the eastern mountainous regions of Lake and Napa counties.
“Rebuilding this bridge is essential to protecting our residents and the surrounding area from future fires and natural disasters that threaten to devastate the region,” said Aguiar-Curry. “Providing funding for this project will ensure that any future emergency response efforts are not hindered by insufficient and unsafe infrastructure.”
The second funding priority that Assemblymember Aguiar-Curry fought for in this year’s budget is $2 million to help implement the revitalization of Clear Lake and its regional economy, as outlined in Assemblymember Aguiar-Curry’s AB 707. Clear Lake is the largest natural freshwater lake in California and the center of the region’s community and economy.
Assemblymember Aguiar-Curry stated, “Today, the State of California made its first down payment toward improving the environmental health of Clear Lake. This startup funding gets us so much more than a healthy lake; it is also an investment in Lake County’s local economy and its people.”
“Clear Lake has always carried deep cultural and economic significance for our tribe,” said Tribal Council Chairman, Jose Simon III. “Middletown Rancheria of Pomo Indians is proud to support AB 707 and work with the Assemblywoman towards the rehabilitation of Clear Lake. The $2 million funding will be of great help in our efforts moving forward.”
AB 707, which has received near-unanimous support, now moves to the Senate Committee on Natural Resources & Water on July 11.
AB 707 Fact Sheet +
Aguiar-Curry represents the 4th Assembly District, which includes all of Lake and Napa Counties, parts of Colusa, Solano and Sonoma Counties, and all of Yolo County except West Sacramento.
PDF File
AB707FactSheet.pdf