SACRAMENTO – The California Legislative Women’s Caucus once again sponsored the annual “Woman of the Year” celebration, at the State Capitol, as part of Women’s History Month. Today, Assemblymember Jacqui Irwin (D-Thousand Oaks) recognized the Honorable Michele Castillo as the 2017 Woman of the Year for the 44th Assembly District.
“Judge Castillo has led an exceptional law career, dedicating herself to improving her community and demonstrating a commitment to public service, which makes her an outstanding representative for the 44th District for the 2017 Woman of the Year,” said Assemblymember Irwin. “I know that she will continue to be a role model for others and continue to play a vital role in our community.”
Judge Castillo, a resident of Camarillo, became the first Latina to serve on the bench when she was appointed as Superior Court Judge on June 28, 2016. Prior to being nominated, she served as a Superior Court Commissioner and worked as a Deputy Public Defender in Ventura and Fresno Counties.
Judge Castillo is active in the local community where she speaks at various schools and organizations. She also invites local schoolchildren into her courtroom to teach them about the role of law and the importance of the court. As a judicial officer, she has received awards from the Diversity Bar Alliance, the Mexican American Bar Association, and has been featured in the Los Angeles Daily Journal and the Citations Magazine, which is the publication for the Ventura County Bar.
She earned her undergraduate degree from UCLA, where she served on the Chancellor’s Advisory Committee on Student Contact. After her undergraduate education, she earned her Juris Doctor degree at the Thomas Jefferson School of Law. While at Thomas Jefferson, she received several awards including the Outstanding Woman’s Law Graduate (National Association of Women Lawyers), the Charles T. Bumber Civil Libertarian Award, and the Trustee’s Scholarship Award for Academic Excellence.
The honorable Michele Castillo said that she was first inspired and fascinated with the law in second grade when she read about Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr.
CONTACT:
Andrew Munson, (805) 482-1904