AB 1646 part of Assemblymember Muratsuchi’s “California Refinery Jobs and Safety Action Plan,” which includes five Assembly bills to improve public safety at all California refineries
Torrance, CA –
On Wednesday, the Assembly Floor today passed Assemblymember Al Muratsuchi’s (D-Torrance) Assembly Bill (AB) 1646, which calls for the creation and maintenance of a publicly accessible community alert plan, using notifications such as reverse 911, text, email PSAs.  It also requires the maintenance of a public alert system including, but not limited to, alarms and sirens to alert the public in case of an emergency.
AB 1646 is part of Assemblymember Muratsuchi’s “California Refinery Jobs and Safety Action Plan,” which includes five Assembly bills to improve public safety at all California refineries.
“Refineries can be dangerous.  The 2015 Torrance refinery explosion was a near catastrophe,” said Muratsuchi. “Residents deserve effective community alert systems in case of emergencies.”
In addition to AB 1646, Assemblymember Muratsuchi’s “California Refinery Jobs and Safety Action Plan” includes the following important Assembly Bills:
AB 1645 will ban the use of Hydrofluoric Acid at California refineries.
AB 1647 will require that the refinery install and maintain air quality monitors at both fence-line and in the community, and require that the refinery publicly report the readings from the monitors in real-time.
AB 1648 will increase the number of state refinery inspectors at the California Division of Occupational Safety and Health (Cal/OSHA).  A budget request has been made in conjunction with this bill.
AB 1649 will codify and make permanent the existing Interagency Refinery Task Force created by Governor Edmund G. Brown, Jr.
Assemblymember Al Muratsuchi represents California’s 66
th
Assembly District, which includes El Camino Village, Gardena, Harbor City, Harbor Gateway, Hermosa Beach, Lomita, Los Angeles, Manhattan Beach, Palos Verdes Estates, Rancho Palos Verdes, Redondo Beach, Rolling Hills, Rolling Hills Estates, Torrance, and West Carson.  He serves as Chairman of the Joint Legislative Audit Committee and the Assembly Select Committee on Aerospace.  Muratsuchi is a member of the Assembly Committees on Budget, Budget Subcommittee 2, Appropriations, Natural Resources, Utilities and Energy, and Veterans Affairs.