SACRAMENTO
– Today Assemblywoman Blanca E. Rubio (D-Baldwin Park) honored the Glendora Education Foundation (GEF) at the Second Annual California Nonprofits Day recognition ceremony. The purpose of this award is to honor a nonprofit that has strengthened its community through service in the 48
th
Assembly District.
“The Glendora Education Foundation and its members worked tirelessly to carry their schools through the recession by supplementing teacher salaries, music programs and supplies,” said Rubio. “They came together as a community to support students, ensuring they had the necessary resources to be successful during those dire economic times, and I am truly honored to present them with this distinction,” Assemblywoman Rubio said.
The GEF was founded in 2003 by parents and community partners to enhance school programs and help the district provide the best education possible for every student. Their service includes continued investments in school programs, including STEAM (science, technology, engineering, arts, and math) experiential learning, scholarship opportunities for college bound seniors, and their new goals include modernizing outdated classrooms. They were recognized with LA County Fair’s 2016 Community Hero award, and have raised over $4 million dollars for their cause.
The California Association of Nonprofits (CalNonprofits) is a statewide alliance of over 10,000 organizations, representing and promoting California’s growing nonprofit sector and working to bring the full power of nonprofits to strengthening communities.
The 48th Assembly District, is comprised of the cities of Azusa, Baldwin Park, Bradbury, City of Industry, Covina, Duarte, El Monte, Glendora, Irwindale, Monrovia, West Covina, and the San Gabriel Valley unincorporated areas of Los Angeles County, including Bassett, Charter Oak, Citrus, East Arcadia, Ramona, Valinda and West La Puente.
Contact:
Miguel A. Cordova
(916) 319-2048
Calnonprofit PR 6.28.17.pdf
###
Calnonprofit PR 6.28.17.pdf