Photo of Governor Jerry Brown, Leland Wilson, and Assemblywoman Sharon Quirk-Silva
FULLERTON - Assemblywoman Sharon Quirk-Silva hosted California Governor Jerry Brown in Fullerton, where they went on a private tour of the Fox Fullerton Theatre. Assemblywoman Quirk-Silva and Governor Brown also met with local officials and members of The Fullerton Historic Theatre Foundation to discuss the progress of the renovations already under way.
“I have been a supporter, and a fan, of the historic Fox Theatre since I went to see matinees there as a child,” said
Quirk-Silva
. “I am also a proud supporter of the renovations and upgrades to the beloved site since my time on the Fullerton City Council. I am very excited to witness the progress that has been made by so many hard working people; including the Fullerton Historic Theatre Foundation.”
"The Fox Theater is an important part of Fullerton's history and its preservation - with the support of Assemblymember Quirk-Silva and many others - will help ensure it is enjoyed well into the future," said Governor Brown.
The Fox Fullerton Theatre was built by C. Stanley Chapman in 1925 for vaudeville and silent movie performances and was soon acquired by Fox Movie Studios and renamed the Fox Theatre. It closed in 1987 and was slated for demolition in 2004, until it was saved by the Fullerton Historic Theatre Foundation. In 1990, the City of Fullerton declared it Historic Landmark Number 35, and in 2006 it was listed on the National Register of Historic Places.
“We are honored to have the governor visit the theater and show interest in the work we have been doing to restore and re-open this important part of Fullerton’s
,
and even southern California’s history,”
Leland Wilson
, President of the Fullerton Historic Theatre Foundation stated. “We hope that he loves the theater as much as we do, and appreciates the dedication the citizens have in preserving our theater.”
For more information on the Fox Fullerton Theatre, visit their
website.