Three Workshops aimed at helping Women set to begin at the end of September
SACRAMENTO –
Assemblymember Jacqui Irwin is hosting a series of workshops aimed at guiding women through current issues that affect them on a daily basis. The workshops are being held at the Ventura County Community Foundation at 4001 Mission Oaks Blvd. in Camarillo on Thursday: September 28, October 5, and October 12.
“From health and wellness, to salary negotiations, to making a change in the community, these workshops will allow women to gain a perspective from local leaders on trends that are currently affecting women in our society,” said Assemblymember Jacqui Irwin. “We are honored to have AAUW partnering with us on these events.”
The three weeks of workshops are as followed:
Week 1 -
September 28
th
/6-7:30 p.m. -
Women in the Workforce
Whether you are at the beginning of your career, reentering the workforce or embarking on a whole new path, this workshop is for you.
Shannon M. Sutherland
will discuss salary negotiations, confidence boosters when speaking to perspective employers, reestablishing yourself professionally, and how to transfer your life experience skill set into a viable professional resume.
Week 2 -
October 5
th
/6-7:30 p.m. -
Women’s Health and Wellness
This week we will focus on women’s health from a holistic approach. We all want to live our best life and taking care of our bodies and our minds should be step number one.
Vanessa Hernández
will motivate, and teach you to work with your body and your schedule to give you more energy.
Charlotte Gullap-Moore, APRN, ANP-BC
will discuss health concerns that plague women in our society today and she will present a holistic, healthy alternative to help us be the best we can be.
Week 3 -
October 12
th
/6-8 p.m. -
Women Enacting Change
Join us as Assemblymember Jacqui Irwin engages in an “Arm Chair Chat” with three incredible women, all established in their fields and thoroughly engaged in the community. How do you go above and beyond, follow your passion, and effect change? Listen in on the conversation and then be part of the Q & A session as we learn from this impressive panel:
Lisa Safaeinili
,
CEO Westminster Clinic,
Dr. Holly Spohn-Gross
, and
Stephanie Caldwell
,
President and CEO of the Ventura Chamber of Commerce.