Torrance, CA –
Assemblymember Al Muratsuchi (D-Torrance), Chairman of the Joint Legislative Audit Committee, released the following statement on the University of California Board of Regents report finding the UC Office of the President interfered with a state audit:
“The University of California Board of Regents’ investigation into the UC Office of the President confirmed the State Auditor’s findings from her April 2017 report.  UC President Janet Napolitano and her top aides deliberately interfered with the Legislature’s attempt to provide greater transparency and accountability as to UCOP’s finances.
“These findings are deeply disappointing to me not only as a proud Berkeley and UCLA alumnus, but as one of the biggest boosters in the Legislature for the University of California, the greatest public university system in the country, if not the world.  UCOP’s actions in interfering with the state audit undermine the Legislature’s trust in the University of California’s leadership.
“For the sake of all Californians, the Board of Regents should hold President Napolitano and her office accountable for their actions, and redouble their efforts to restore trust in their leadership.”
Assemblymember Muratsuchi jointly authored Assembly Bill 562, a new law authorizing civil penalties for anyone who, with intent to deceive or defraud, obstructs the California State Auditor in the performance of an audit.  AB 562 was introduced in response to the State Auditor’s findings on the UCOP’s interference with the state audit.
Assemblymember Al Muratsuchi represents California’s 66
th
Assembly District, which includes El Camino Village, Gardena, Harbor City, Harbor Gateway, Hermosa Beach, Lomita, Los Angeles, Manhattan Beach, Palos Verdes Estates, Rancho Palos Verdes, Redondo Beach, Rolling Hills, Rolling Hills Estates, Torrance, and West Carson.  He serves as Chairman of the Joint Legislative Audit Committee and the Assembly Select Committee on Aerospace.  Muratsuchi is a member of the Assembly Committees on Budget, Budget Subcommittee on Education Finance, Environmental Safety and Toxic Materials, Natural Resources, Utilities and Energy, and Veterans Affairs.