SACRAMENTO
— Assemblywoman Blanca E. Rubio (D-Baldwin Park) today honored Domingo H. Almanzar Jr. as Assembly District 48’s Veteran of the Year.  The purpose of this event is to identify and honor a veteran with a distinguished military career, and has given back to their community.
“Domingo’s love of operating a space for veterans to gather is exceedingly apparent when you talk to him,” Assemblywoman Rubio said. “Veterans often have a difficult time transitioning to civilian life, and the American Legion Post 790 where he is Commander, has been a place where so many of our brave men and women can connect and reintegrate into their communities.”
In a special ceremony in Sacramento, Domingo H. Almanzar’s service to his community was celebrated by many in the Legislature. Almanzar was raised in Victoria Texas where he graduated from high school and immediately enlisted in the military. He has served in the Marine Corps., Navy, Air Force and Army, retiring after 35 years of military service as an E8. His many years of service earned him dozens of awards and citations, including achievement medals, good conduct and humanitarian medals, and many ribbons. Almanzar is an active member in the American Legion and Veterans of Foreign War.
This year’s event was hosted by American Legion, Department of California, AMVETS, Department of California, the California Association of County Veterans Service Officers, Veterans of Foreign Wars, Department of California, and the Vietnam Veterans of America, California State Council.
The 48th Assembly District, is comprised of the cities of Azusa, Baldwin Park, Bradbury, City of Industry, Covina, Duarte, El Monte, Glendora, Irwindale, Monrovia, West Covina, and the San Gabriel Valley unincorporated areas of Los Angeles County, including Bassett, Charter Oak, Citrus, East Arcadia, Ramona, Valinda and West La Puente.
Contact: Miguel A. Cordova (916) 319-2048
Miguel.Cordova@asm.ca.gov
Veteran of the Year PR 6.21.17.pdf
###
Veteran of the Year PR 6.21.17.pdf