(SACRAMENTO)  - California State Assemblywoman Sharon Quirk Silva (D-Orange County) had been appointed by Assembly Speaker Anthony Rendon as Chair of the Assembly’s Committee on Jobs, Economic Development, and the Economy (JEDE). Today, her membership has also been confirmed in the Committee on Accountability and Administrative Review, the Committee on Health, the Committee on Higher Education, and the Committee on Veteran Affairs.
“I am honored that Assembly Speaker Anthony Rendon has placed the confidence in me to be involved in these critical policy-making committees that will greatly impact our state.”
“As a member of the Assembly Committee on Accountability and Administrative Review, I will continue my efforts to guarantee a more efficient state government, with adequate transparency. I will work with state agencies to ensure that we are doing our best for all Californians.”
“I will take my role in the Committee on Health very seriously. My colleagues and I will work hard to provide sufficient access to affordable health care for all Californians.  Both Democrats and Republicans in the legislature will address the new federal administration funding structure. We will work to ensure that individuals, especially the children in our state, are provided the care they need.”
“As a teacher for over 30 years, working in the Committee on Higher Education will be let me deal with issues that are near and dear to me. I will feel at home while I fight to improve conditions for both educators and students in our state’s universities, community colleges, and any postsecondary educations. We should set goals to make higher education more affordable for our students; with federal, state, and college financial aid expanded to cover room and board, books and living expenses.”
“The veterans of our state earned all the opportunities we can offer in all areas; including quality education, employment, healthcare, housing, expedited service claims, and more. I vow to work in the Assembly Committee of Veterans Affairs for the needs of our veterans, as they have sacrificed so much in the name of service.”
For more information on committee membership, visit my
website.
Assemblywoman Sharon Quirk represents the 65th Assembly District, which includes the Orange County communities of Anaheim, Buena Park, Cypress, Fullerton, Garden Grove, La Palma, and Stanton.
###