SAN JOSE – Assemblymember Ash Kalra (D-San Jose) will hold a press conference tomorrow at 11:30 a.m. at the San Jose Animal Care Center on 2750 Monterey Road to kick off “Paws for a Cause,” a two-week pet adoption drive with zero adoption fees.
Beginning July 22 through August 6, pet adoption fees will be waived for all adult cats (4 months and older) and dogs (6 months and older).
“I’m proud to partner with our local shelter and sponsor this drive to remind everyone to adopt—not shop,” said Assemblymember Kalra. “There are many senior dogs and cats that need loving homes and I hope to this free adoption drive will encourage residents to consider older animals when looking for a new addition to the family.”
The San Jose City Council adopted a budget proposal submitted by then-Councilmember Ash Kalra last year, making the San Jose Animal Care Center a no-kill shelter.
“We are honored to have Assemblymember Kalra’s support and are thrilled that he’s sponsoring free adult pet adoptions here at our shelter,” said Jon Cicirelli, Director of Animal Care and Services at the City of San José. “Adult animals are often overlooked in a shelter environment, as it’s hard for them to compete with puppies and kittens. The great thing about adopting an adult pet is that it’s easy to see if they are calm as opposed to energetic, or if they are cuddly versus more independent.”
The adoption fee waivers for the Paws for a Cause pet adoption drive is sponsored by Assemblymember Kalra and not at taxpayer expense.
About the San Jose Animal Care Center:
The San Jose Animal Care Center is operated by the City of San José’s Animal Care and Services (ACS) division. Besides pet adoptions ACS offers the community many valuable programs and services, including sheltering and field services for Cupertino, Los Gatos, Milpitas, and Saratoga. The four units of ACS include: Field Operations, Medical Operations, Shelter Operations, and Administration. Although each unit is responsible for different aspects of ACS, they are dependent upon each other and work together cohesively to best benefit both the animals and the community. For more information on Animal Care and Services and the San Jose Animal Care Center, please visit
www.sanjoseanimals.com
.
Assemblymember Kalra to Sponsor Paws for a Cause Free Pet Adoption Drive