(SACRAMENTO) ГўВҖВ“ Assemblywoman Sharon Quirk-Silva (D-Orange County) has already had 3 bills signed into law, in only her first 7 months in office. The Assemblywoman has been hard at work for Orange County; working across the aisle with Republican colleagues to support important legislation, securing budget funds for Orange County, and championing many bills during this legislative year. The 3 bills that have already been signed by Governor Jerry Brown are Assembly Bill 690 (AB 690), AB 1727, and AB 1731.
AB 690 requires Home Owner Associations (HOAs) to deliver, within the annual budget report, an itemized estimate of fees that may be charged by a professional management company for documents necessary to facilitate a real estate transaction. This bill would also require a disclosure on whether the manager receives a referral fee from third parties for distributing required documents.
ГўВҖВңI authored this law to help people understand costs associated with the transfer of their homes, and to ensure all parties involved have the tools necessary to make informed decisions,ГўВҖВқ said Quirk-Silva. ГўВҖВңThis law makes sure there's more transparency in the process of transferring property, and that there aren't additional fees or excessive fees for disclosure documents.ГўВҖВқ
AB 1727 reformed the Government Code related to Foreign Trade Zones and the California Foreign Investment Program. Foreign Trade Zones are areas within the state where goods may be imported more easily.
ГўВҖВңThese programs are designed to promote foreign trade, and global supply chains, while retaining California employment that might otherwise go to foreign countries,ГўВҖВқ said Quirk-Silva. ГўВҖВңWe must promote an atmosphere of good business and trade for the economy of California, and secure the jobs for Californians.ГўВҖВқ
AB 1731 supports Assemblywoman Quirk-SilvaГўВҖВҷs commitment to making every public dollar count. The State Auditor recently found that a community college district wasnГўВҖВҷt providing sufficient guidance to local high schools who were administering apprenticeship programs.В В  When asked why they had not provided written protocols and training, the community college district replied that they were concerned they didnГўВҖВҷt have the legal standing to interfere.
ГўВҖВңAB 1731 clarifies that community colleges not only has standing, but a duty to ensure public money is correctly spent,ГўВҖВқ said Quirk-Silva. ГўВҖВңWith investments in our higher education system, comes the responsibility to ensure that training programs are managed, and overseen, in a manner that ensures accountability.ГўВҖВқ
Below is a more complete bill description and attached is background on the audit.
And for further information, I invite you to visit my
website
.
###
Assemblywoman Sharon Quirk represents the 65th Assembly District, which includes the Orange County communities of Anaheim, Buena Park, Cypress, Fullerton, Garden Grove, La Palma, and Stanton.