SACRAMENTO – AB 1440, a bill authored by Assemblymember Ash Kalra (D-San Jose) clarifying that federal Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) agents and Customs and Border Patrol (CBP) Officers are not licensed peace officers under California State Law, was signed by the Governor.
“I am pleased that Governor Brown has signed AB 1440 into law, upholding the trust and faith our local law enforcement work to develop with local communities every day to provide for the public’s safety,” said Assemblymember Kalra. “Under the new federal administration ICE and CBP are undertaking unprecedented and aggressive tactics to identify, monitor, and detain undocumented immigrants for deportation. This bill sends a clear message—that in California, law enforcement officers are sworn to protect all residents, regardless of their immigration status.”
Oftentimes, federal agents have been known to pretend or misrepresent themselves as licensed peace officers in order to compel or coerce suspected undocumented immigrants into revealing or cooperating with them under false pretenses.
“Governor Brown is sending the right message that these unethical tactics by ICE under the Trump Administration will not be tolerated in California,” said Christopher Sanchez, Policy Advocate for the Coalition for Humane Immigrant Rights (CHIRLA). “To have ICE deceive our communities that they are police officers only creates greater mistrust between law enforcement and the immigrant community. We applaud the passage of Assembly Bill 1440 as we continue to educate our communities of the deception created by the Trump Administration.”
Along with CHIRLA, AB 1440 is supported by various organizations including the American Civil Liberties Union, California Public Defenders Association, Peace Officers Research Association of California and California Rural Legal Assistance Foundation (CRLA Foundation).
“CRLA Foundation applauds Governor Brown for his leadership in signing AB 1440,” said immigration attorney Laura Flores-Dixit, on behalf of the Foundation. “Our elected officials have spoken and indicated that every Californian deserves to feel safe trusting peace officers meant to serve and protect our communities. This law will help further inform communities that federal ICE and CBP agents are not police officers.”
As required by state law, and established by the Commission on Police Officer Standards and Training (POST), licensed peace officers undergo a thorough and rigorous training offered by a state licensed policy academy. Their training is lengthy and involves training related to leadership, professionalism and ethics, crimes against children and sex crimes, and understanding victimology and crisis intervention.
Peace Officer Bill Authored by Assemblymember Ash Kalra Signed by Governor