Bill would impose civil penalty of up to $5,000 on anyone who intentionally deceives, defrauds, obstructs or interferes with an official state audit
Torrance, CA –
The California Senate passed AB 562, the Audit Protection Act, by a vote of 5-1.  Jointly authored by Assemblymember Al Muratsuchi (D-Torrance), along with Assemblymembers Kevin McCarty (D-Sacramento) and Phil Ting (D-San Francisco), the bill would impose a civil penalty of up to $5,000 on anyone who intentionally deceives, defrauds, obstructs or interferes with the California State Auditor in the performance of his or her official duties.
Assemblymember Muratsuchi, as Chair of the Joint Legislative Audit Committee (JLAC), introduced the bill in response to the recent University of California audit findings, which alleges interference in the audit process by the University of California Office of the President.
“I was very disturbed by the allegation of interference.  This bill will give the state auditor the necessary tools to ensure that all public agencies are held accountable and cooperate with state auditors,” said Assemblymember Muratsuchi.
“Audits are essential to conducting robust oversight and ensuring transparency within state government,” said Assemblymember Phil Ting (D-San Francisco).   “It’s outrageous that anyone would willingly and knowingly tamper with an audit.  Anyone who does should pay the price.  Without good information we cannot ensure we are meeting the needs of Californians.”
“Taxpayers deserve fair and independent oversight of California’s State agencies,” said Assemblymember Kevin McCarty (D- Sacramento).  “Interfering with state audits hurts the public’s trust and undermines the authority of the State Auditor to examine our public agencies impartially.”
Assemblymember Al Muratsuchi represents California’s 66
th
Assembly District, which includes El Camino Village, Gardena, Harbor City, Harbor Gateway, Hermosa Beach, Lomita, Los Angeles, Manhattan Beach, Palos Verdes Estates, Rancho Palos Verdes, Redondo Beach, Rolling Hills, Rolling Hills Estates, Torrance, and West Carson.  He serves as Chairman of the Joint Legislative Audit Committee and the Assembly Select Committee on Aerospace.  Muratsuchi is a member of the Assembly Committees on Budget, Budget Subcommittee 2, Environmental Safety and Toxic Materials Committee, Natural Resources, Utilities and Energy, and Veterans Affairs.