Assemblywoman Blanca Rubio Issues Statement on California Budget Deal
SACRAMENTO, CA – Today, the California Legislature approved the 2018-19 state budget. The budget agreement makes record investments in schools and universities, fully fills the Rainy Day Fund, boosts child care and combats homelessness and poverty.
Assemblywoman Blanca Rubio (D-Baldwin Park), a Member of both the Assembly Budget Sub Committee #1 on Health and Human Services and the full Budget Committee issued the following statement:
“I am proud that once again California will deliver a responsible, balanced, and on-time budget by the constitutional deadline of June 15th,” said Assemblywoman Rubio. “As a former educator, I am especially happy that this budget makes a record investment in K-12 schools, makes college more affordable for California students, increases child care funding and creates thousands of new preschool slots. Investing in our state’s future is the brightest investment we can make as lawmakers.”
“Another strong component included in the budget deal is the fiscally responsible nature in which we invest in both the Rainy Day Fund and the newly created Budget Deficit Savings Account.  This savings represents the first step in putting California in a more stable fiscal position, should we be hit by another recession. If we don’t save during the good times, we will inevitably be forced to make cuts to critical services during the bad,” Assemblywoman Rubio continued.
“As Chair of the Assembly Select Committee on Domestic Violence, I, along with several of my colleagues, pushed for a significant investment in funding for services for domestic violence survivors. Domestic violence is an issue that is very significant to me, and I am proud that my colleagues have agreed to invest $10 million in services for survivors and another $10 million for temporary housing solutions for survivors fleeing domestic violence.”
“I also have the pleasure of serving as Chair of the Assembly Human Services Committee. In this role I oversee legislation relating to many of our state’s social service programs. From this perspective, I was pleased to see that this budget increases CalWORKs grants so that we can move towards ending deep poverty and addresses the ever growing homeless population in our state through a $500 million dollar package.” Assemblywoman Rubio concluded.
The 48th Assembly District, is comprised of the cities of Azusa, Baldwin Park, Bradbury, City of Industry, Covina, Duarte, El Monte, Glendora, Irwindale, Monrovia, West Covina, and the San Gabriel Valley unincorporated areas of Los Angeles County, including Bassett, Charter Oak, Citrus, East Arcadia, Ramona, Valinda and West La Puente.