Torrance, CA –
Assemblymember Al Muratsuchi (D-Torrance) is proud to announce Manhattan Beach Mayor Amy Howorth as the Woman of the Year for Assembly District 66.  Serving her second term as Manhattan Beach City Councilmember, Mayor Howorth has been a South Bay resident for 21 years.  Prior to serving on the Manhattan Beach City Council, she served two terms on the Manhattan Beach school board.
“Mayor Howorth is a fixture in the South Bay community.  She has served the community for many years and made a positive impact on the people who live here.  I am proud to present this much-deserved award to her,” said Assemblymember Muratsuchi.
“It's a tremendous honor to be recognized in the State Assembly for my efforts over the past two decades.  I'm doubly honored to be selected by Assemblymember Al Muratsuchi, for whom I have so much respect. I can't wait to meet the other women from around the state and share our stories and strength,” said Mayor Howorth.
While Mayor, she successfully championed a city-wide ban on smoking and was a major proponent of both the newly completed Manhattan Beach Skate Park and the county library in Manhattan Beach.   As a school board member for eight years, she championed increased access for young women to the sciences and the passing of a $67 million bond that resulted in new buildings and classrooms for students.  She is a founding member of South Bay Cares, a socially-minded non-profit dedicated to advocating for rights through community action, and is a lifelong Girl Scout who frequently speaks to local Girl Scouts about empowering young women to “ask for what you want.”
Assemblymember Al Muratsuchi represents California’s 66
th
Assembly District, which includes El Camino Village, Gardena, Harbor City, Harbor Gateway, Hermosa Beach, Lomita, Los Angeles, Manhattan Beach, Palos Verdes Estates, Rancho Palos Verdes, Redondo Beach, Rolling Hills, Rolling Hills Estates, Torrance, and West Carson.  He serves as Chairman of the Joint Legislative Audit Committee and the Assembly Select Committee on Aerospace.  Muratsuchi is a member of the Assembly Committees on Budget, Budget Subcommittee on Education Finance, Environmental Safety and Toxic Materials, Natural Resources, Utilities and Energy, and Veterans Affairs.