SACRAMENTO –
As the County Veterans Service Officer (CVSO), Mike McManus has been responsible for managing the Ventura County’s Veteran Service Office and its staff, where they connect more than 40,000 veterans and 10,000 active duty military personnel with their federal and state benefits. He was recognized at a ceremony at the state capitol earlier today.
“Mike McManus has shown a steadfast devotion to active duty personnel, veterans and their families as a First Sergeant and later as the CVSO for the Ventura County Veteran Service Office,” said Assemblymember Jacqui Irwin. “It’s this dedication that led to him being named my 2018 Veteran of the Year.”
McManus served 20 years in the United States Air Force, and retired in 2007 as a Senior Master Sergeant/First Sergeant (E8) before accepting the role of CVSO in 2010. While in the Air Force, he deployed to several theaters including USAFE HQ Staff for Allied Force in 1999, to Kuwait for Southern Watch in 2002, and to Kuwait for Iraqi Freedom in 2003.
Mike held a variety of leadership positions in the Air Force, first in fuels management/logistics and the last seven years as a First Sergeant (E-8), where he supervised around 350-500 enlisted personnel. During his time in the Air Force, he was awarded several awards and decorations including: the Air Force Commendation Medal, the Air Force Outstanding Unit Award, the Armed Forces Expeditionary Medal, the Global War on Terrorism Expeditionary Medal and the NATO Medal.
“Assemblymember Irwin has done a lot and continues to work for Ventura County’s 40,000 veterans and it’s an honor to be named her district’s Veteran of the Year,” said McManus. “I’m blessed to lead a dedicated, professional team at the County Veteran Services Office (CVSO) and it’s a lot of their hard work that has made this award possible. The number of veterans and family members seen in the office has increased year after year based on the reputation of the CVSO and the trust the veteran community has placed in us to do all we can to connect them with their earned federal and state veterans affairs benefits as well as with local resources. It’s an honor to work alongside my staff as we continue to serve our veterans,” he added.
Mike holds a Bachelor of Science in Business Management and is happily married to his wife, Lori.
Assemblymember Jacqui Irwin represents California’s 44th Assembly District, which includes the communities of Camarillo, Casa Conejo, Channel Islands Beach, El Rio, Lake Sherwood, Moorpark, Oak Park, Oxnard, Port Hueneme, Santa Rosa Valley, Thousand Oaks, and Westlake Village.