SACRAMENTO –
The California Legislative Women’s Caucus once again sponsored the annual “Woman of the Year” celebration, at the State Capitol, as part of Women’s History Month. Today, Assemblymember Jacqui Irwin (D-Thousand Oaks) honored Jill Lederer as her 2018 Assembly District 44 Woman of the Year.
“For the past 30 years, Jill Lederer has established herself as a phenomenal business woman, community leader and CEO,” said Assemblymember Jacqui Irwin. “Her dedication to improving the business community and her willingness to devote herself to the City of Thousand Oaks, the Greater Conejo Valley, and Ventura County makes her an excellent choice for Woman of the Year.”
In 2009, Jill Lederer was named the President and CEO of the Greater Conejo Valley Chamber of Commerce, which serves the cities of Thousand Oaks, Westlake Village and Agoura Hills. During her tenure, the Chamber has grown to become one of the largest in the western United States and holds the elite 5-Star accreditation rating from the U.S. Chamber of Commerce. They are one of only six chambers in California to earn this ranking. The Greater Conejo Valley Chamber of Commerce has also received ten consecutive President’s Circle awards from CalChamber for their capability to advocate on behalf of the business community.
“I’m so honored to receive this recognition from Assemblymember Irwin,” Lederer said.  “She models the collaborative spirit which makes all things possible. No award like this is the work of any one person and I thank my awesome team and Board members from the Chamber for how exceptional they are every single day.”
Jill got her start working at a Domino’s store as a sophomore in college and eventually rose up the ranks to own and operate 10 Domino’s Pizza stores in the Conejo and San Fernando Valleys, which employed several hundred people. She also sits on several boards, including the Board of Regents for California Lutheran University, Board of Trustees of Los Robles Hospital & Medical Center, Board of the Conejo Las Virgenes Future Foundation, Board of the Western Association of Chamber Executives, and is the current President of the Chambers of Commerce Alliance of Ventura & Santa Barbara Counties.
Jill earned her MBA from Pepperdine University and in her free time enjoys hiking, reading, traveling and spending time with animals.
###