Annual Ceremony held in recognition of WomenГўВҖВҷs History Month
SACRAMENTO ГўВҖВ“ Today, Assemblywoman Quirk-Silva (D-Orange County) and the California State Assembly honored Jo-Anne Prophete Matsuba as the 65th Assembly District Woman of the Year 2018. Assemblywoman Quirk-Silva recognized the Orange County leader for her community involvement during the annual Assembly Floor ceremony.
ГўВҖВңJo-Anne Prophete Matsuba exemplifies the true spirit of community, by reaching out to everyone in need as a neighbor, and a friendГўВҖВқ said Quirk-Silva. ГўВҖВңI am proud to recognize Jo-Anne for her overarching influence on, and service for, so many families in California. This award is one simple gesture to show gratitude for all of her efforts, and I am proud to recognize her remarkable accomplishments for Orange County.ГўВҖВқ
Jo-Anne Prophete Matsuba and her husband Howard began their lives together when Jo-Anne was working as a critical care nurse.В  They have lived in Fullerton for the past 25 years and raised their two daughters, Stephanie and Michelle. Last year Jo-Anne completed 3 years as a member of the St. Juliana Consultative School Board, and is a long time member of the St. Juliana Choir.
ГўВҖВңMy Haitian born parents always taught us to give thanks to God for our blessings, and to give back,ГўВҖВқ said Matsuba. ГўВҖВңMy hope is that by helping others, in any small way, I will instill that same charitable spirit in my daughters.ГўВҖВқ
Jo-Anne Prophete Matsuba was also on the fundraising team of Higher Ground, an organization that provides mentoring programs for youth and their families in at-risk communities, in Anaheim and surrounding areas.В  She was an active member of the Fullerton Chapter of National Charity League for 11 years, and among other offices, she served as the President.В  She also served as a committee member for A Walk Among The Stars, raising funds to support cancer patients at St. Jude Hospital Crosson Cancer Institute.
With members of the Knights of Columbus through her church, she helps to serve meals and provide shelter to the homeless at the Fullerton Armory.В  For several years she has co-chaired a Dinner/Silent Auction to benefit Get On The Bus, an organization that takes children to see their incarcerated parents on MotherГўВҖВҷs Day and FatherГўВҖВҷs Day.В  As a licensed Zumba instructor, Jo-Anne also volunteers her time teaching Zumba classes to teens at Crittenton Services for Children and Families as well as serving as an active participant with the Crittenton Cookie Couples.В  She is a former YMCA Board member, and was honored as its Volunteer of the year.