(SACRAMENTO) –
This week,
Assemblywoman Quirk-Silva
introduced emergency legislation to waive charges on the disaster area properties that were established by the Building Homes and Jobs Act adopted last year. Given the quick need for action, this measure contains an urgency clause to immediately assist those who have lost so much. Assembly Bill 1765 (AB 1765) seeks to waive the $75 document fee imposed by the Building Homes and Jobs Act when an area has been designated a “natural disaster” by the Governor of California.
“The role of government is to assist in aiding Californians in recovering from such tragedies, not profit from them,” said Quirk-Silva. “It was extremely important for me to work with my colleagues from both parties, in order to come to the aid of our fellow Californians.”
In 2017, over 10,000 structures were lost in major California wildfires that were declared as “states of emergency” by Governor Brown. The wildfires that swept across Northern California destroyed 8,889 structures. The Thomas blaze northwest of downtown Los Angeles destroyed 1,063 structures. The Lilac and Anaheim Hills fires destroyed at least 200 structures. This bill would waive fees on those struggling to recover from such devastating losses.
“I am thankful to all the brave men and women that helped fight the fires of our state. The State is truly grateful for their service,” said Quirk-Silva. “Now, state lawmakers need to do our part to help ease the burden for the victims whenever there is an opportunity.”
Assemblywoman Quirk-Silva (D – Orange County) is joined in this bipartisan effort by many colleagues who represent areas impacted by wildfires, and serve as joint authors of this measure: Assemblymember Cecilia Aguiar-Curry (D - Winters), Autumn Burke (D – Inglewood), Anna Caballero (D – Salinas), Dr. Steven Choi (R - Irvine), Jim Cooper (D - Elk Grove), Tom Daly (D – Anaheim), Laura Friedman (D – Glendale), Marc Levine (D Marin County), Brian Maienschein (R – San Diego), Kevin McCarty (D – Sacramento), Adrin Nazarian (D – Sherman Oaks), Randy Voepel (R – Santee), Marie Waldron (R – Escondido).