(SACRAMENTO)
- Robert Rivas (D-Hollister) took the oath of office to serve as the Assemblymember for the 30th Assembly District today at the California State Capitol. The oath was administered by Assembly Speaker Anthony Rendon. The 30th Assembly district includes the Salinas Valley and Big Sur, San Benito County, Watsonville, Gilroy, and Morgan Hill.
“I am humbled to be elected by the people of the 30th Assembly District and excited to get to work fighting for our diverse communities in the Legislature. Together we can ensure people have access to quality healthcare, affordable housing and clean air and water,” said Rivas.
Rivas has served as a county supervisor, educator and firefighter. Through this work, he has seen the challenges faced by his community and the opportunities to work together for real solutions to improve people's lives.  “I’m excited to see Robert Rivas represent our community in Sacramento.  I know from all that he has done locally, that he will continue to be a champion for preserving the natural beauty of our region.  He will fight to keep the air clean and water safe for our families and vital agricultural industry,” said Dr. Laura Solorio, President, Protect Monterey County.
Growing up in farmworker housing, Rivas’ grandfather taught him the importance of service on behalf of the community. Through him, Rivas learned that you could fight fiercely for your beliefs, while respecting those with whom you disagree. Rivas’ mother and family immigrated from Mexico in the 1960’s.
Rivas earned a Bachelor’s in Government from CSU-Sacramento and a Master’s in Public Administration from San Jose State University. He is a professor at Gavilan College and has served as an employment specialist and job training coordinator at San Benito High School, helping students prepare for their first jobs. “As an educator, Robert Rivas understands how important it is that teachers are strongly supported in the classroom.  Our students will have better educational opportunities because Robert will be tireless in working to ensure that all children are able to get a quality public education,” said local teacher, Kati Bassler.
Rivas lives in Hollister with his wife, Christen, and their daughter, Melina.
###