SACRAMENTO –
One of Assemblymember Jacqui Irwin’s (D-Thousand Oaks) key pieces of legislation this session, AB 2770,  which will help prevent future sexual harassment in the work place passed the Assembly earlier this week. This bill, sponsored by the California Chamber of Commerce and designated  a “job creator,” will enable businesses to avoid hiring repeat sexual harassment offenders, ending the cycle of harassment in industries across California.
“Serial sexual harassers have been able to go from one job to another because employers have been afraid of alerting prospective employers about the individual’s past actions. As more victims of sexual harassment speak up, we need to do more to protect employees from repeat sexual harassers,” said Assemblymember Irwin. “AB 2770 aims to ensure that our workplace protection can finally work to prevent serial harassers from continuing to abuse victims at future places of work.”
AB 2770 allows former employers to speak openly to prospective employers about a sexual harassment investigation that resulted in the termination of an employee. It also makes clear that credible claims of sexual harassment by victims to their employers are protected; making it less likely an accused harasser will file defamation suits against the victim.
“It is apparent that California law is not providing enough protection to sexual harassment victims and California employers,” said Laura Curtis, policy advocate for CalChamber. “AB 2270 gives employees more protection from harassment by clarifying the victims’ and employers’ rights to curb harassment without the threat of defamation lawsuits.”
The bill passed through the Assembly Floor with a 72-0 vote. It now heads to the State Senate for consideration.
Assemblymember Jacqui Irwin represents California’s 44th Assembly District, which includes the communities of Camarillo, Casa Conejo, Channel Islands Beach, El Rio, Lak Sherwood, Moorpark, Oak Park, Oxnard, Port Hueneme, Santa Rosa Valley, Thousand Oaks, and Westlake Village.
###