SACRAMENTO, CA –
Assembly Joint Resolution 30, authored by Assemblymember Cecilia Aguiar-Curry (D-Winters), was approved by the State Senate earlier this week. The resolution urges Congress to reassert its role in approving acts of war in a nuclear first-strike, by passing H.R. 669, 24-8.
H.R. 669, authored by California Representative Ted Lieu (D-Los Angeles County), would prohibit the President from unilaterally authorizing the deployment of nuclear weapons in an offensive attack absent express authorization from Congress.  The proposed legislation does not impede a President’s ability to respond with all necessary force to a nuclear attack on the United States. H.R. 669 is co-sponsored by Representatives John Garamendi (D-Walnut Grove), Mike Thompson (D-St. Helena) and 18 other California Members of Congress.
AJR 30 by Assemblymember Aguiar-Curry adds the California State Legislature to the many voices calling for every member of California’s Congressional Delegation to support the balance of powers proposed in H.R. 669.
“This is an existential debate.  AJR 30 demonstrates Californians’ commitment to protecting all of the world’s people, not just Americans, from the terror of a nuclear war.  And, one person must not be allowed to make that decision for us all.  Our constitutional checks and balances exist for exactly this reason,” said Assemblymember Cecilia Aguiar-Curry.  “Our Legislature is now on record demanding that Congress, and especially our delegation, ACT NOW on H.R. 669 to preserve the Congressional role in approving the most frightening act of war – an offensive nuclear first strike.”
“Over the past nearly two years, this Administration has lurched from one potential nuclear crisis to the next. This cavalier rhetoric is not how we should conduct national security or foreign policy and why I am grateful Assemblymember Cecilia Aguiar-Curry introduced Assembly Joint Resolution 30 in support of H.R. 669, the Restricting First Use of Nuclear Weapons Act,” said Congressman Mike Thompson (D-St. Helena). “This bill that I cosponsored would prohibit the President from launching a first nuclear strike without first coming to Congress for a declaration of war. This is an absolutely necessary check on this reckless President and the majority should take the next step and bring this bill for a vote on the House floor.”
“I applaud the California Legislature for passing AJR 30, and I thank Assemblymember Aguiar-Curry for introducing this important resolution which supports our efforts in Washington to prevent a United States President from launching an unprovoked nuclear strike,” said Congressman John Garamendi (D-Walnut Grove). “Recent tensions on the Korean Peninsula are a significant concern for all Americans, especially for those on the West Coast. I coauthored H.R. 669 in Congress to prevent this president, or any other, from launching an unprovoked first strike with nuclear weapons without Congressional oversight. California has taken an important step forward by passing AJR 30, and I implore the United States Congress to do the same by passing H.R. 669.”
Aguiar-Curry represents the 4th Assembly District, which includes all of Lake and Napa Counties, all of Yolo County except West Sacramento, and parts of Colusa County, Solano County, and Sonoma County.
www.asm.ca.gov/aguiar-curry
###