SACRAMENTO – This morning, constitutional rights attorney Jesse Gabriel was sworn in as the State Assemblymember representing California’s 45th Assembly District. More than 100 community members and guests attended the ceremony. Rabbi Noah Farkas of Valley Beth Shalom delivered the invocation, and Assembly Speaker Anthony Rendon administered the Oath of Office. Gabriel was joined by his wife, Rachel Rosner, at the rostrum.
“I am grateful to the people of the 45th Assembly District for placing their trust in me, and will work hard every day to honor that trust.  I look forward to working with my colleagues to make higher education and healthcare more affordable, solve our state’s housing crisis, and ensure that the Valley gets its fair share of state resources and transportation funding,” said Gabriel.
Prior to joining the Legislature, Assemblymember Gabriel was a Los Angeles County Commissioner and constitutional rights attorney. Through his legal work and legislative advocacy, Gabriel has assisted Holocaust survivors, victims of domestic abuse, and communities facing hate-motivated violence, and helped to resolve complex business disputes. From 2008 to 2010, Gabriel was a senior advisor to former United States Senator Evan Bayh.
A committed environmental and longtime community activist, Gabriel serves on the boards of the Los Angeles League of Conservation Voters and the Jewish Federation of Greater Los Angeles. He lives in Encino with his wife Rachel Rosner, an affordable housing attorney, and their sons Ethan and Joshua.
The 45th Assembly District encompasses the communities of Bell Canyon, Calabasas, Canoga Park, Encino, Hidden Hills, Northridge, Reseda, West Hills, Winnetka, Woodland Hills, and Tarzana.
Below are links to audio of Assemblymember Gabriel and the entire swearing in ceremony:
Remarks from Assemblymember Gabriel immediately after his swearing in. (3:30)
Assemblymember Gabriel says he’s proud to represent the people of the 45th District. (:15)
Assemblymember Gabriel says he’s ready to stand up for the values of Californians. (:24)
Entire swearing in ceremony. (13:12)