Top Legislative Priorities Include: Addressing Homelessness, Affordable Housing, Affordable Higher Education, Health, and Public Safety
SACRAMENTO – This morning, Sharon Quirk-Silva (D – Orange County) was sworn-in to serve as California Assemblymember for 2019 to 2020. Quirk-Silva, who served as the 65th’s Assemblywoman from 2012 to 2014, was elected again to serve from 2016 to 2018 and then reelected this year to serve the 2019 to 2020 legislative term. The 65th Assembly District incorporates Orange County communities in Anaheim, Buena Park, Cypress, Fullerton, La Palma, Garden Grove, and Stanton.
“I am grateful, and honored, for the opportunity to continue to serve the residents of the 65th District as their State Assemblywoman,” said Quirk-Silva. “I want to thank my constituents for their trust and support. I will continue the work in bringing the state of California’s resources to the people of Orange County.”
The reelected Assemblywoman has already been hard at work to craft sensible legislation for the upcoming 2-year session, which aims to help her Orange County district.
“There is a serious need to address homelessness, affordable housing, and affordable higher education. I will also focus my legislative work on public safety, access to mental and behavioral health care, and our small businesses. I will continue to fight for our communities, and make sure that the state is being held accountable for the people of Orange County,” said Quirk-Silva.
Assemblywoman Quirk-Silva is a mother, educator, and dedicated public servant who has served her community as Mayor of Fullerton, and in the State Assembly. Quirk-Silva grew up in Orange County and received her education at Fullerton public schools, Fullerton College, before earning her bachelor’s degree at UCLA and her Teaching Credential from CSU Fullerton.
Assemblywoman Quirk-Silva will also be hosting a Holiday Celebration and Toy Drive that will feature a “community swearing-in” on Thursday, December 20, and the district office will be available to discuss legislative issues of interest to the community, and the services provided by state.