(Sacramento)
– Today, as part of the effort to support the passage of Assembly Bill 2840 and a related budget request to fund an Autism employment pilot program, Assemblywoman Blanca E. Rubio held a press conference at the State Capitol Building.
The bill and its partnered budget request would create a three-year pilot program in Sacramento and Los Angeles counties, which aims to increase long-term employment opportunities for young adults with Autism.
“Autism Spectrum Disorder is the fastest growing developmental disability in the United States,” said Assemblywoman Rubio. “Seventeen years ago, one in 150 children were born with ASD now that figure is one in 68. According to a 2013 report, unemployment for young adults with autism is estimated at 90 percent nationwide. While multiple factors can contribute to low employment numbers for young adults with ASD, a fundamental component is a lack of understanding of the disability itself. Proper education, outreach, and training of employers can help them take affirmative action to recruit, hire, promote, and retain individuals with autism.”
Assemblywoman Rubio was joined at the news conference by young adults and parents who are members of the ASD community, as well as area employers. In addition, two of the co-authors of the bill – Assemblymembers Jim Frazier and Timothy Grayson spoke at the news conference.
The 48th Assembly District is comprised of the cities of Azusa, Baldwin Park, Bradbury, City of Industry, Covina, Duarte, El Monte, Glendora, Irwindale, Monrovia, West Covina, and the San Gabriel Valley unincorporated areas of Los Angeles County, including Bassett, Charter Oak, Citrus, East Arcadia, Ramona, Valinda and West La Puente.
Below are links to audio of Assemblywoman Rubio, others who spoke at the news conference and the entire news conference:
Opening remarks from Assemblywoman Rubio.
Remarks from Meristem student Maddie Bond.
Remarks from Eskaton representative Darlene Cullivan,
Entire news conference including remarks from Assemblymembers Jim Frazier and Tim Grayson.
En el siguiente enlace encontrará 1 corte de audio en español de la asambleísta Blanca E. Rubio:
CONTACT:
Taylor Woolfork, (916) 319-2048