SACRAMENTO ГўВҖВ“ Today, during California Nonprofit Day,
Assemblywoman Sharon Quirk-Silva (D-Orange County)
and the California State Assembly honored the Illumination Foundation, and CEO and President Paul Leon. Since July 2008, Illumination Foundation has worked tirelessly to break the cycle of homelessness for Southern CaliforniaГўВҖВҷs most vulnerable populations.
ГўВҖВңDue to the efforts of the Illumination Foundation, thousands of families, and children in need, have been helped. Their record of a 78% job placement success rate shows that their dedication and devoted work for our Orange County community has been a potent force of change,ГўВҖВқ said Quirk-Silva. ГўВҖВңIt is important to honor, and officially recognize this charitable foundation and CEO Paul Leon for the positive impact they have made in our community.ГўВҖВқ
Homelessness in Southern California is staggering. More than 73,432 people are homeless in Southern California each year.В  More than 32,000 children in Orange County (1 in 22) are homeless or unstably housed.В  Many people donГўВҖВҷt realize that 54% of households in OC with full-time employment live below the poverty line.
ГўВҖВңWe are honored to be selected as Nonprofit of the Year by Assemblywoman Sharon Quirk-Silva for California Nonprofits Day,ГўВҖВқ said Paul Leon, Illumination Foundation CEO and President. ГўВҖВңWe appreciate Assemblymember Quirk-SilvaГўВҖВҷs support of our innovative solution-minded programs to provide housing and healthcare for Orange CountyГўВҖВҷs most vulnerable populations.ГўВҖВқ
Since its inception, Illumination Foundation has been committed to providing our most vulnerable populations with comprehensive, whole-person care to help them break the cycle of homelessness. Illumination Foundation provides the best care possible for the homeless, focusing on services that will transition clients into stable housing.В  This includes recuperative care where medically vulnerable homeless individuals can receive integrated medical oversight, case management, behavior health and substance use services, housing services and other social services.
ГўВҖВңThere is no one solution to combating the pervasive homelessness problem, but the philanthropic Illumination Foundation is utilizing a comprehensive approach to take the issue head-on,ГўВҖВқ said Assemblywoman Quirk-Silva. ГўВҖВңState and local government must continue to work with private organizations like theirs, in a multifaceted approach to the persistent issues of homelessness.ГўВҖВқ
ГўВҖВңIt is important for cities, the county, the state, faith based organizations and residents to be part of the solution of homelessness,ГўВҖВқ said Leon.В  ГўВҖВңNot only is it the right thing to do but it also saves money and improves the overall community.ГўВҖВқ
About Illumination Foundation:
Illumination Foundation is an Orange County-based 501(c)(3) nonprofit dedicated to providing targeted, interdisciplinary services for the most vulnerable homeless clients to break or prevent the cycle of homelessness. The Illumination Foundation pioneered an innovative and cost-effective solution to advance health and housing stability for the chronically homeless community. To date, Illumination FoundationГўВҖВҷs housing programs have served 2,316 families and have provided medical and social services to more than 20,000 individuals. For more information, visit
www.ifhomeless.org
.