Construction paid for, in part, with $231 million secured by Assemblymember Muratsuchi
Torrance, CA –
Assemblymember Al Muratsuchi (D-Torrance), along with California Governor Jerry Brown, Los Angeles Mayor Eric Garcetti and Torrance Mayor Pat Furey, today announced the start of construction of the Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority (LA Metro) Green Line extension of the light rail corridor in the South Bay.  Speaking at the construction site of what will be the Torrance Transit Park and Ride Regional Terminal on Crenshaw Boulevard, a new stop on the proposed extension of the Metro Green Line, Assemblymember Muratsuchi also announced that he delivered $231 million in state funds for the Green Line extension in the South Bay.  The major state funding for the Green Line extension will help ensure that the South Bay will be served by Metro light rail service before the 2028 Los Angeles Olympics, as part of LA Metro’s “28 by ‘28” project list.  The Green Line extension project will extend light rail service from the existing Redondo Beach Station on Marine Avenue to a proposed Torrance transit center at Crenshaw Boulevard and Del Amo Boulevard.
Assemblymember Muratsuchi spoke about the importance of the project for the South Bay.
“This is great news for Torrance and the South Bay.  The Metro Green Line extension to Torrance will create thousands of local jobs from a major infrastructure project, help cut down on traffic on our freeways and local roads by getting more people on public transit, and cut down on air pollution and greenhouse gas emissions.  I’m especially excited with LA Metro’s plan to connect the proposed Torrance Metro station to LAX.  This will give South Bay residents a real alternative for commuting to Los Angeles or to the airport,”  said Assemblymember Muratsuchi. “The South Bay has not received its fair share of public transit dollars.  So I fought for fast tracking the Torrance Green Line extension, and now the state is delivering $231 million in funding to expedite the Metro Green Line extension to Torrance.  I thank Governor Brown and Mayor Garcetti for keeping their promise to me to make the Metro South Bay extension a priority.”
“Here in Torrance, because of Assemblymember Muratsuchi’s efforts, we’re getting something done,” said Governor Jerry Brown. “This is improving transportation, improving the quality of life and providing jobs for people.”
“The people of our city and state no longer have to choose between the lower emissions our future demands and the infrastructure improvements our region deserves,” said Metro Board Chair and Los Angeles Mayor Eric Garcetti. “This new terminal is about putting our tax dollars to work and translating smart investments into less congestion, easier commutes, more sustainable transit options, good jobs for our workers and prosperity for all.”
Assemblymember Al Muratsuchi represents California’s 66th Assembly District, which includes El Camino Village, Gardena, Harbor City, Harbor Gateway, Hermosa Beach, Lomita, Los Angeles, Manhattan Beach, Palos Verdes Estates, Rancho Palos Verdes, Redondo Beach, Rolling Hills, Rolling Hills Estates, Torrance, and West Carson.  He serves as Acting Chairman of the Assembly Natural Resources Committee, Chairman of the Joint Legislative Audit Committee, and the Assembly Select Committee on Aerospace.  Muratsuchi is a member of the Assembly Committees on Budget, Budget Subcommittee on Education Finance, Environmental Safety and Toxic Materials, Natural Resources, Utilities and Energy, and Veterans Affairs.
CONTACT:
Kerry Townsend Jacob, kerry.jacob@asm.ca.gov, 310-806-0893