SACRAMENTO, CA –
Assemblymember Cecilia Aguiar-Curry (D-Winters) introduced Assembly Joint Resolution 30 today urging Congress to assert its role in the approval of acts of war in a nuclear first-strike scenario.
HR 669, authored by California Representative Ted Lieu (D-Los Angeles County), would prohibit the President from unilaterally authorizing the deployment of nuclear weapons in an offensive attack absent express authorization from Congress.  The proposed legislation does not impede a President’s ability to respond in-kind to a nuclear attack on the United States. HR 669 is co-sponsored by Representatives Garamendi (D-Walnut Grove) and Thompson (D-St. Helena) along with 18 other California Members of Congress.
AJR 30 by Assemblymember Aguiar-Curry adds the California State Legislature to the many voices calling for every member of California’s Congressional Delegation to also support the balance of powers proposed in HR 669.
“Having the unilateral power to obliterate entire nations is too much power for any one human being, regardless of party.  The law proposed in HR 669 should apply to every U.S. President, but it is especially important for someone as temperamental as President Donald Trump,” said Assemblymember Aguiar-Curry. “A nuclear holocaust isn’t Twitter, Mr. President. You can’t fire away and then hit the delete button after taking things too far.”
Tonight, President Trump will address the nation in his State of the Union address. This speech comes only one week after Governor Brown gave his final State of the State address, in which he expressed concern about rising nuclear tensions. Brown said, “Just this morning, the preeminent science and security board of the Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists moved the minute hand of the Doomsday Clock 30 seconds closer to catastrophe. It is now two minutes to midnight, as close as it was at the height of the Cold War in 1953.”
According to Aguiar-Curry, “The ability to wield such destructive nuclear power should be shared by the branches of our federal government. It should not stay solely in the hands of a person who threatens nuclear attacks on social media, calls world leaders names, and insults entire continents. Passing this law is a smart and measured protection for all Americans.”
“I applaud Assemblymember Cecilia Aguiar-Curry for introducing this Assembly Joint Resolution urging Congress to pass HR 669, the Restricting First Use of Nuclear Weapons Act,” said Congressman Mike Thompson (D-St. Helena). “Never before in our country’s history have we seen an American President so publicly and cavalierly threaten nuclear war with another country. The President’s rhetoric is beyond concerning and should not be coming from a Commander-in-Chief. HR 669, which I have coauthored in the House, would prohibit the president from launching a first nuclear strike without a declaration of war by Congress. Republicans in Congress must do their job and serve as a check on this reckless President.”
Said Congressman John Garamendi (D-Walnut Grove), “I thank Assemblymember Aguiar-Curry for introducing this resolution. Heightened tensions on the Korean Peninsula are a significant concern for all Americans, and especially those on the West Coast. HR669 is a crucial bill that will prevent this president, or any other, from launching a first strike with nuclear weapons. It will significantly reduce the threat of a nuclear confrontation and make Americans everywhere much safer. It should be common sense that America will not strike first with nuclear weapons.”
AJR 30 will be heard in a policy committee in early spring.