AB 2791 allows stray kittens and puppies to be immediately released to rescue groups
Torrance
– Governor Jerry Brown has signed Assemblymember Al Muratsuchi’s (D-Torrance) Assembly Bill (AB) 2791 into law.  This law, which is sponsored by the American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (ASPCA), will allow stray, motherless kittens and puppies less than eight weeks of age to be immediately released from the shelter to rescue groups rather than be required to stay at the shelter for three days, as is required by current law.  The immediate release of these animals is meant to ensure their health and survival, as unweaned kittens and puppies are more vulnerable to disease at the shelter and are at high-risk for euthanasia.
“This bill will help save thousands of kittens and puppies throughout the state.  By streamlining the pet rescue process, these kittens and puppies will increase their chances of survival and finding good homes,” said Assemblymember Muratsuchi.
“AB 2791 offers a commonsense and collaborative approach to increasing positive outcomes for kittens and puppies and will save thousands of lives each year. The ASPCA thanks Governor Brown for signing this lifesaving bill into law, and we are grateful to Assemblymember Muratsuchi for his work to secure stronger protections for some of the most vulnerable animals in shelters,” said Susan Riggs, Senior Director of State Legislation – Western Region.
Current law requires that a stray cat be held for owner redemption for three days before making them available for adoption.  It also allows for the immediate euthanasia of any unweaned, stray kitten that is impounded in a public shelter without its mother.
Assemblymember Al Muratsuchi represents California’s 66
th
Assembly District, which includes El Camino Village, Gardena, Harbor City, Harbor Gateway, Hermosa Beach, Lomita, Los Angeles, Manhattan Beach, Palos Verdes Estates, Rancho Palos Verdes, Redondo Beach, Rolling Hills, Rolling Hills Estates, Torrance, and West Carson.  He serves as Chairman of the Joint Legislative Audit Committee and the Assembly Select Committee on Aerospace.  Muratsuchi is a member of the Assembly Committees on Budget, Budget Subcommittee on Education Finance, Environmental Safety and Toxic Materials, Natural Resources, Utilities and Energy, and Veterans Affairs.