Azusa, CA, June 2, 2018 – Veterans met today with more than 40 businesses, including Amazon, FedEx and SoCal Gas, which were recruiting for full-time and part-time positions, at a job and resource fair at the Veterans of Foreign Wars Post 8070, sponsored by Assemblywoman Blanca E. Rubio (D-Baldwin Park) and the Azusa Chamber of Commerce.
“Coming home can be a difficult transition,” said VFW Post 8070 Quartermaster Jorge Galvez.  Retired from the Marine Corps, Galvez, who was awarded a Purple Heart after being severely injured in combat in Iraq, said sometimes soldiers return and feel forgotten. “But this event shows that people do care, and want to see veterans succeed. It’s awesome.”
Assemblywoman Rubio, whose brother serves in the Army, understands that it’s these types of local job events that can make a difference. Despite learning skills such as leadership and teamwork during their military service, veterans returning to civilian life often have difficulty finding the right job. While the employment numbers for veterans are improving nationwide, the Assemblywoman and the Azusa Chamber of Commerce want to continue that success for veterans living in the San Gabriel Valley.
“We owe our veterans not only our thanks, but to show them our gratitude by asking how we can help. This is our second job fair and our local and regional partners believe that many veterans could come out of here with either interviews scheduled or even walk out of here with jobs,” said Assemblywoman Rubio.
Angel Morales, human resources coordinator for FedEx in Arcadia, said the company believes in helping veterans as much as possible.
“For what they’ve done for us, we should to our best to help them to connect them with jobs when we can,” he said.
Steve Castro, chief executive office of the Azusa Chamber of Commerce, echoed that comment.
“This clearly will benefit Azusa and the region,” he said. “But more importantly, this will help our veterans.”
The 48th Assembly District, is comprised of the cities of Azusa, Baldwin Park, Bradbury, City of Industry, Covina, Duarte, El Monte, Glendora, Irwindale, Monrovia, West Covina, and the San Gabriel Valley unincorporated areas of Los Angeles County, including Bassett, Charter Oak, Citrus, East Arcadia, Ramona, Valinda and West La Puente.