FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE:                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             CONTACT: November 20th, 2018                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Taylor Woolfork (916) 319-2048
Assemblywoman Rubio Hosts 2nd Annual Operation Gobble Turkey Giveaway in Azusa
AZUSA, CA
– This morning Assemblywoman Blanca E. Rubio (D-Baldwin Park) hosted the 2nd Annual Operation Gobble Turkey Giveaway in Azusa. Community members from throughout the San Gabriel Valley joined to discuss state related issues and hand out turkeys in anticipation of Thursday’s holiday.
“We’ll be spending this Thursday as we always do in the Rubio household – sitting down with family and friends to eat way too much food, watch a little football, and most importantly, count our blessings,” said Assemblywoman Rubio. “It is heartwarming to have the privilege of coming out and supporting the less fortunate among us this holiday season and it is my hope that we can continue this annual tradition.”
During Tuesday’s event, about 550 turkeys were passed out on a first-come, first-serve basis to residents of the San Gabriel Valley.
“Foothill Unity Center is honored to partner with Assemblywoman Blanca E. Rubio this Thanksgiving Season,” said Betty R. McWilliams, Executive Director of Foothill Unity Center, Inc. “Together we are making a difference for so many families that otherwise would go without a festive holiday meal.”
Assemblywoman Rubio represents the 48th Assembly District, which is comprised of the cities of Azusa, Baldwin Park, Bradbury, City of Industry, Covina, Duarte, El Monte, Glendora, Irwindale, Monrovia, West Covina, and the San Gabriel Valley unincorporated areas of Los Angeles County, including Bassett, Charter Oak, Citrus, East Arcadia, Ramona, Valinda and West La Puente.
###
Website of Assemblymember Blanca E. Rubio: www.asm.ca.gov/Rubio