Torrance, CA –
Assemblymember Al Muratsuchi (D-Torrance) delivered $231 million dollars in state funding for the Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority’s (LA Metro) extension of the Green Line light rail corridor to Torrance.  Assemblymember Muratsuchi has been negotiating with Governor Jerry Brown and LA Metro for the expedited construction of the LA Metro Green Line extension.  Today’s announcement of major state funding for the Green Line extension will help ensure that the South Bay will be served by Metro light rail service before the 2028 Los Angeles Olympics, as part of LA Metro’s “28 by ’28” project list.  The Green Line extension project will extend light rail service from the existing Redondo Beach Station on Marine Avenue to a proposed Torrance transit center at Crenshaw Boulevard and Del Amo Boulevard.
“This is great news for Torrance and the South Bay,” declared Assemblymember Muratsuchi.  “The Metro Green Line extension to Torrance will help cut down on traffic on our freeways and local roads, get more people on public transit, and cut down on air pollution and greenhouse gas emissions.  I’m especially excited with LA Metro’s plan to connect the proposed Torrance Metro station to LAX.  This will give South Bay residents a real alternative to commuting and getting to the airport.” “Last year, I negotiated with Governor Brown and LA Metro to fast track the Metro Green Line extension to Torrance,” added Assemblymember Muratsuchi.  “The South Bay has not received its fair share of public transit dollars, so I fought for fast tracking the Torrance Green Line extension.  The Governor and LA Metro committed to work with me to fast track the Green Line extension, but the project needed significant state funding to fill the gap in overall project funding.  Today’s announcement means the state is delivering $231 million in funding to expedite the Metro Green Line extension to Torrance, as part of Mayor Garcetti’s “28 by ‘28” project list to complete by the 2028 Los Angeles Olympics.  The Metro Green Line extension project is one of the largest project grant recipients in the State Transportation Agency’s Transit and Intercity Rail Capital Program.  I thank Governor Brown and Los Angeles Mayor Eric Garcetti for keeping their promise to me to make the Metro South Bay extension a priority.”
This project is part of the Los Angeles Region Transit System Integration and Modernization Program of Projects (the “Program”).  The Program will focus on the construction of six new transit corridor projects that will increase the existing Metro light rail and bus rapid transit networks by approximately 60 miles.  Once completed, the program will connect all parts of Los Angeles County, including the Hollywood Burbank Airport and the Los Angeles International Airport, with a growing network of transit and rail lines.
Assemblymember Al Muratsuchi represents California’s 66
th
Assembly District, which includes El Camino Village, Gardena, Harbor City, Harbor Gateway, Hermosa Beach, Lomita, Los Angeles, Manhattan Beach, Palos Verdes Estates, Rancho Palos Verdes, Redondo Beach, Rolling Hills, Rolling Hills Estates, Torrance, and West Carson.  He serves as Acting Chairman of the Assembly Natural Resources Committee, Chairman of the Joint Legislative Audit Committee, and the Assembly Select Committee on Aerospace.  Muratsuchi is a member of the Assembly Committees on Budget, Budget Subcommittee on Education Finance, Environmental Safety and Toxic Materials, Natural Resources, Utilities and Energy, and Veterans Affairs.