Torrance, CA –
Assemblymember Al Muratsuchi (D-Torrance) and Joint Author Assembly Majority Leader Ian Calderon (D-Whittier), today held a press conference at the Tim Kelly Surfing Memorial statue in Hermosa Beach for AB 1782, a bill which will establish surfing as California’s state sport.  Both Assemblymembers, joined by other speakers and attendees, ended the event by going surfing.
California is an iconic California sport that brings in significant economic activity to the state each year. The state is home to several surfing museums, including the Surfers’ Hall of Fame.
“Nothing represents the California Dream better than surfing -- riding the waves and living in harmony with the beautiful beaches and ocean of our Golden State.  Surfing in California has a rich history and culture.  The surfing lifestyle attracts people from all around the world and generates over $6 billion in annual retail sales.  Surfing is an iconic California sport and an important part of the multibillion dollar California coastal economy, particularly in the tourism and recreation industries.  For these reasons, I am proud to introduce a bill that would make surfing California’s official sport,” said Assemblymember Al Muratsuchi (D-Torrance).
“I’m proud to join Assemblymember Muratsuchi in designating surfing as our state sport,” stated Majority Leader Ian Calderon. “Surfing has had a significant influence on my life and taught me at a young age to appreciate our beautiful coastline that we are so fortunate to have here in California. AB 1782 will give surfing the respect it deserves and recognizes its contributions to our state’s culture and economy,” said Assembly Majority Leader Ian Calderon (D-Whittier).
Assemblymember Al Muratsuchi represents California’s 66
th
Assembly District, which includes El Camino Village, Gardena, Harbor City, Harbor Gateway, Hermosa Beach, Lomita, Los Angeles, Manhattan Beach, Palos Verdes Estates, Rancho Palos Verdes, Redondo Beach, Rolling Hills, Rolling Hills Estates, Torrance, and West Carson.  He serves as Chairman of the Joint Legislative Audit Committee and the Assembly Select Committee on Aerospace.  Muratsuchi is a member of the Assembly Committees on Budget, Budget Subcommittee on Education Finance, Environmental Safety and Toxic Materials, Natural Resources, Utilities and Energy, and Veterans Affairs.
Contact:
Kerry Townsend Jacob
kerry.jacob@asm.ca.gov, 310-806-0893