Torrance, CA
– Today, Assemblymember Al Muratsuchi (D-Torrance) re-introduced his bill to bring California to the top ten in the nation in per pupil spending. This bill proposes a funding target under California’s Local Control Funding Formula (LCFF) which would increase the state’s K-12 funding by $35 billion over an unspecified number of years. This increase would ensure that all school districts have full and fair funding to cover increasing fixed costs and improve education for all California public school students.
“California needs to renew our commitment to make K-12 education funding the highest priority in the state budget,” declared Assemblymember Muratsuchi. “For too long, California has been below the national average in per pupil K-12 funding. This bill will establish strong school funding targets to provide full and fair funding for all California children, regardless of where you live. Full and fair funding is necessary to provide good public schools, hire good teachers, reduce class sizes and provide the necessary resources so that all children can succeed.”
This bill uses the existing Local Control Funding Formula and proposes a 60 percent increase to the 2018-19 cost of LCFF, which is equal to approximately $35 billion above the current funding level. The funding increase is designed to ensure that districts are able to cover increased fixed costs by dedicating 84 percent of the funds, equal to nearly $30 billion, to the Base Grant portion of the LCFF, which provides the greatest spending flexibility for districts. This bill seeks to bring California up to the top ten in the nation in per pupil spending.
Assemblymember Al Muratsuchi represents California’s 66th Assembly District, which includes El Camino Village, Gardena, Harbor City, Harbor Gateway, Hermosa Beach, Lomita, Los Angeles, Manhattan Beach, Palos Verdes Estates, Rancho Palos Verdes, Redondo Beach, Rolling Hills, Rolling Hills Estates, Torrance, and West Carson. He serves as Chairman of the Joint Legislative Audit Committee and the Assembly Select Committee on Aerospace, and as Acting Chairman of the Assembly Committee on Natural Resources. Muratsuchi is a member of the Assembly Committees on Budget, Budget Subcommittee on Education Finance, Environmental Safety and Toxic Materials, Natural Resources, Utilities and Energy, and Veterans Affairs.
CONTACT:
Kerry Jacob, Kerry.Jacob@asm.ca.gov