Torrance, CA –
Assemblymember Al Muratsuchi (D-Torrance) is proud to announce that he secured $10 million in additional funding over four years for the Southern California Regional Occupational Center (SoCal ROC), an award-winning career technical education program in Torrance.  The Assemblymember had requested that education funds be directed to SoCal ROC through the state’s budget.  The California Department of Finance certified that SoCal ROC’s financial plan for the next four years was stable and will be issuing the funds.
“As a former Torrance School Board member and trustee of the SoCal ROC board, I am pleased to deliver the additional $10 million in funding for SoCal ROC.  This additional funding will ensure that this excellent program will continue to provide high-quality career technical education and teach valuable job skills to students throughout the South Bay,” said Assemblymember Muratsuchi.
"On behalf of the SoCal ROC Board of Education and staff members, I would like to thank Assemblymember Muratsuchi for his effort in helping us secure these funds. This would not have been possible without his involvement. The funding will be used for program development and supporting existing programs,” said Atlas Helaire, III, Ed.D., Superintendent, SoCal ROC.  “SoCal ROC will also designate a portion of the money for building the reserves while adapting to the Local Control Funding Formula. With no dedicated funding from the State, these dollars will ensure that we can continue offering quality programs until we develop a more permanent solution for our budget.”
The state will be releasing $4 million in funding for the 2017-2018 fiscal year.  The release of the remainder of the funds is contingent upon approval of the subsequent plans to be submitted in September of 2018.
Assemblymember Al Muratsuchi represents California’s 66
th
Assembly District, which includes El Camino Village, Gardena, Harbor City, Harbor Gateway, Hermosa Beach, Lomita, Los Angeles, Manhattan Beach, Palos Verdes Estates, Rancho Palos Verdes, Redondo Beach, Rolling Hills, Rolling Hills Estates, Torrance, and West Carson.  He serves as Chairman of the Joint Legislative Audit Committee and the Assembly Select Committee on Aerospace.  Muratsuchi is a member of the Assembly Committees on Budget, Budget Subcommittee on Education Finance, Environmental Safety and Toxic Materials, Natural Resources, Utilities and Energy, and Veterans Affairs.