SACRAMENTO –
Assemblymember Jacqui Irwin (D-Thousand Oaks) announced today she has selected Senior Concerns as her 2018 Nonprofit of the Year. Senior Concerns has been serving the residents of eastern Ventura county and western Los Angeles county since 1974 and is based in Thousand Oaks.
“Our seniors are valued members of our society and deserve to have the best resources available,” said Assemblymember Jacqui Irwin. “On a fixed income, it can be difficult to afford even basic necessities such as food, living arrangements or transportation without having assistance. Senior Concerns helps thousands of local seniors to live well-meaning and empowering lives. That’s why I’m proud to have them as my 2018 Nonprofit of the Year.”
Senior Concerns’ offers a wide range of programs aimed at improving the lives of family caregivers and seniors in our community. As part of their services, they offer more than 56,000 hours of social and cognitive stimulation through their Adult Day Program to help enhance the quality of life of seniors; award more than $140,000 in scholarships to seniors in need of services at the Adult Day Program and Meals on Wheels; and deliver more than 30,000 nutritious, freshly prepared meals to homebound seniors in Thousand Oaks and Newbury Park.
They also support more than 5,000 family caregivers with services, information and emotional assistance. Senior Concerns also provides workshops, support groups, and pro bono financial and legal services to seniors and caregivers.
“We are deeply humbled and honored to be chosen as a Nonprofit of the Year by Assemblyperson Jacqui Irwin,” says Andrea Gallagher, President of Senior Concerns. “This recognition reflects our commitment to serving the needs of a growing population of seniors and family caregivers in our community.”
In 2013, Senior Concerns was recognized by CSQ Magazine as one of the Top 100 Regional Philanthropies. They were also recognized by the Greater Conejo Valley Chamber of Commerce as Organization of the Year in 2013 and 2014.