SACRAMENTO, Calif --- Assemblymember Mike A. Gipson’s bill to address water quality issues in the Los Angeles County Sativa Water District (Sativa) passed the Senate Environmental Quality Committee yesterday evening with unanimous bi-partisan support. AB 1577 would require the State Water Board to order Sativa to accept full management and control from an appointed administrator who will address its water quality problems and work towards a long-term solution.
“We are one step closer to dealing with this water crisis,” said Asm. Gipson. “Sativa customers have dealt with water quality issues for far too long. I have been aware of and engaged in this issue since my first term in office and have done my best to work with Sativa on finding a resolution. Unfortunately it has become increasingly clear that Sativa cannot effectively manage on its own and that is why with a heavy heart I am moving AB 1577 forward and have added an urgency clause to the bill to ensure that it goes into effect immediately upon its passage.”
Most bills go into effect January 1, of the following year; however, given the urgent nature of this issue, a clause was added to allow the bill to take effect as soon as the measure is signed by the governor. In addition, amendments were taken to ensure the State Water Resources Control Board (Water Board) is able to act to consolidate the district after the state administrator has assumed control. Current law allows the Water Board to consolidate a water agency within an unincorporated territory, but a small portion of Sativa is located in the city of Compton and thus required a special exception.
“In moving AB 1577 forward with urgency, I am doing everything in my power to ensure that our community has the clean, safe, and affordable drinking water that it deserves. This has been an ongoing problem and after many years of having the chance to resolve this on their own, it is clear the state must step in and take action to protect public interests. I will not have a Flint water crisis on my watch.”
###
PDF Copy