Fresno, CA
– On Wednesday, August 8th, Assemblymember Dr. Joaquin Arambula (D-Fresno) will present a $1 million check to Fresno City College (FCC) for its Career and Technical Education (CTE) program. Assemblymember Arambula successfully obtained these funds in this year’s budget to increase job training and career opportunities in the region.
The presentation will be part of FCC President Dr. Carole Goldsmith’s inaugural “State of the College” speech before business and community leaders, FCC faculty and staff, and other attendees in the Old Administration Building Auditorium. Fresno City College has a vigorous job training program, and FCC officials will use these funds to expand the college’s Electrical Systems Technology and Welding programs. The college will purchase robots, software and other equipment that will train 70 more students per year and prepare them for the job market.
“The economic health of our region depends on increasing job training and job opportunities for young students and people returning to college,” said Assemblymember Arambula. “Fresno City College has an impressive Career and Technical Education program that emphasizes the latest teaching methods and provides hands-on experience. I am proud to have fought for this $1 million allocation because it invests in our workforce and will help boost the economic future of the Central Valley.”
President Goldsmith said: “Career and Technical Education programs are crucial to providing the skills needed for modern careers and increasing jobs in our region. These funds will allow us to augment our classes, bring in the latest technology and, most importantly, enhance the learning experience of our students.”
Assemblymember Arambula and President Goldsmith will be available to media from 7:50 a.m. to approximately 8:10 a.m. in front of the Old Administration Building, directly prior to Dr. Goldsmith’s speech beginning in the OAB Auditorium. Fresno City College is located at 1101 East University Avenue in Fresno. Attached is a map for media parking.
###