Funds will Support California Start-Ups and Small Businesses Achieve Short and Long-Term Goals
ORANGE COUNTY
ГўВҖВ“ Assemblywoman Sharon Quirk-Silva, Chair of the Assembly Jobs Committee, and the GovernorГўВҖВҷs Office of Business and Economic Development (GO-Biz) today announced the
84 recipients
of the of the California Small Business Technical Assistance Expansion Program (SB TAEP) for 2018. The $17 million provided for this yearГўВҖВҷs recipients has been allocated to technical assistance centers with a focus on services to underserved business groups, including women, minority, and veteran-owned businesses and businesses in low-wealth, rural, and disaster-impacted communities.
ГўВҖВңCalifornia is home to the largest number and fastest growing start-ups and small businesses in the country doing everything from providing professional services to innovating next gen consumer products,ГўВҖВқ said GO-Biz Director Panorea Avdis. ГўВҖВңThis new grant program will give many of these small businesses the expert advice and tools they need to grow and maintain their ventures.ГўВҖВқ
SB TAEP was created as part of the GovernorГўВҖВҷs Fiscal Year 2018 / 2019 state budget to expand the capacity of federal small business technical assistance programs and services in California such as free or low-cost one-on-one consulting and low-cost training. The Office of Small Business Advocate at the GovernorГўВҖВҷs Office of Business and Economic Development (GO-Biz) is charged with implementing and administering the Program.
ГўВҖВңAs Chair of the Jobs Committee, I am pleased to see that our stateГўВҖВҷs real job creators, our small businesses, now have greater access to services that help them expand their successful ventures and begin new ones on the right foot,ГўВҖВқ said Assemblywoman Sharon Quirk-Silva. ГўВҖВңThese grants will support the development of small businesses in California, and remove impediments to help businesses flourish. This investment will make economic independence, and upward mobility, a reality for millions more Californians, by cultivating the ingenuity and talents our best have to offer.ГўВҖВқ
Federal small business technical assistance centers are designated by federal funding partners to operate federal small business technical assistance programs throughout the state. These centers provide one-on-one, confidential consulting, and training to help small businesses and entrepreneurs start, expand, facilitate investment and create jobs in California. The SB TAEP provides state grant funding to expand consulting and training services provided by existing and new centers, including satellite offices.
ГўВҖВңI am proud to have worked alongside my colleague Assemblymember Quirk-Silva, and GO-Biz, to champion significant funding to support CaliforniaГўВҖВҷs small businesses,ГўВҖВқ said Assemblymember Sabrina Cervantes. ГўВҖВңSmall businesses are the cornerstone of CaliforniaГўВҖВҷs economy and it is imperative that we continue working to ensure that they have the resources necessary to thrive in our great state. I am especially excited to see that technical assistance centers in Riverside County, and throughout California now have adequate funding to provide essential services that support small businesses, specifically those owned by veterans, women, and minorities.ГўВҖВқ
Recipients of this yearГўВҖВҷs funding include:
Asian Business Institute & Resource Center (ABIRC)
Provides technical assistance to Southeast Asian businesses in Fresno CountyГўВҖВҷs rural areas by offering language translation and direct services, including trainings on state and local requirements and procurement processes.
Agriculture and Land-Based Training Association (ALBA)
Provides financial management and marketing support to help former farmworkers and veterans establish and operate viable organic family farms in Monterey County.
Renaissance Entrepreneurship Center (Richmond Center)
Provides English and Spanish language services in low-wealth communities in eastern and western Contra Costa County, including comprehensive business planning courses in English and Spanish.
Industry-specific training and consulting to businesses in the food, service, and makers/manufacturing sectors.
Veteran Business Outreach Center
Provides technical assistance to Veterans throughout the state in starting, sustaining, or expanding a small business.В  Services will include financial management, cybersecurity requirements, procurement, and social media and e-commerce marketing platforms.
Central CA Small Business Development Center (SBDC)
Facilitates increased online/electronic consulting throughout the Central CA SBDC region. Expanded consulting and training services to small businesses throughout the region affected by current and future wildfires and other natural disasters.
El Pajaro Community Development Corporation
Provides programs and services to small and microГўВҖВҗbusinesses from disadvantaged communities in Monterey, Santa Cruz, and San Benito Counties. В Services will include general business education, business development training, and access to capital services and for our farm and foodГўВҖВҗbased businesses, assistance with accessing new markets.
Norcal SBDC Tech Futures Group
Expands consulting efforts throughout the Norcal SBDC region to tech entrepreneurs who want to create scalable and high growth companies but lack the business experience, knowledge, and valuable investor contacts.
Norcal SBDC (Siskiyou Service Center)
Creates a traveling, remote satellite center to serve remote communities.В  The ГўВҖВңpop-upГўВҖВқ center will provide each community in the region with an SBDC for a day.
###