Select Committee Chaired by Assemblywoman Petrie-Norris to Address Student Debt Crisis Affecting Half of All California Graduates
SACRAMENTO – Today, appointments to the California State Assembly Select Committee on Student Debt, chaired by Assemblywoman Cottie Petrie-Norris (D-Laguna Beach) were announced by California State Assembly Speaker Anthony Rendon. Committee members include Assemblymembers Rebecca Bauer-Kahan (D-Orinda), Sabrina Cervantes (D-Corona), David Chiu (D-San Francisco), Brian Dahle (R-Bieber), Sydney Kamlager-Dove (D-Los Angeles), Chad Mayes (R-Yucca Valley), Kevin McCarty (D-Sacramento), Sharon Quirk-Silva (D-Orange County), Miguel Santiago (D-Los Angeles), and Mark Stone (D-Monterey Bay).
“The Select Committee on Student Debt is ready to hit the ground running and begin addressing the debt burden faced by California students and their families,” said Assemblywoman Petrie-Norris. “Californians owe $133 billion in student loan debt, devastating financial lives and hurting the economy. As chair of the Select Committee on Student Debt, I look forward to collaborating with my fellow committee members, our colleagues in the Legislature and advocates to make sure student borrowers have a shot at the future they deserve.”
Student borrower advocates joined the Assemblywoman to applaud the appointment of members of the select committee.
“Too many students in California are leaving college with the crushing burden of student loan debt, many without degrees to show for it,” said Tom Steyer, President of NextGen America. “It’s past time we give these students a fair chance to relieve their debt burden. Thanks to the Speaker and the members and chair of the Select Committee, California is well-positioned to take on the student debt crisis and do right by student borrowers and their families.”
"As we come together to strengthen protections for all student borrowers and their families, we look forward to working with the Select Committee on Student Debt to address this crisis,” said Seth Frotman, executive director of the Student Borrower Protection Center. "Millions of borrowers across the state continue to struggle under the weight of billions in debt and this historic committee will deliver an honest accounting of the true costs of student debt to California families for the first time."
“While the federal government has chosen to leave consumers and student borrowers behind, we’re pleased California is laying the groundwork to make sure leaders are equipped to take on the student debt crisis,” said Suzanne Martindale, senior policy counsel for the West Coast Office at Consumer Reports. “We look forward to California continuing to lead the charge for justice on behalf of consumers, and hope other states will follow.”