Image
Los Angeles, CA
– Today, Assemblymember Jesse Gabriel honored New Friends Homeless Center as Nonprofit of the Year for the 45th Assembly District. The Recognition Ceremony took place at the State Capitol in Sacramento.
In presenting a Resolution honoring New Friends founder Pastor April Belt, Assemblymember Gabriel said “It is an honor to recognize New Friends Homeless Center and Pastor April for the amazing work they do on behalf of our community.  I’ve personally witnessed their incredible efforts to uplift and care for folks in the West Valley who are experiencing homelessness.  The recent news about the devastating increase in homelessness is another reminder of why it’s so important to support New Friends and the work they are doing to help some of the most vulnerable members of our community.”
Pastor April Belt, the founder of New Friends Homeless Center, added “We really appreciate this recognition of the work that New Friends is doing in the west San Fernando Valley community. It has been great to work with Assemblymember Gabriel and his team in the District and we look forward to serving more community members and neighbors in need.”
Yesterday evening, members of the Assemblymember’s District Office joined New Friends volunteers to serve dinner at their Encino location. Assemblymember Gabriel and his District Office team have previously served meals with New Friends.
New Friends Homeless Center has been providing individuals experiencing homelessness with hot meals, care, and respect since March 2011. New Friends operates locations in Encino and Woodland Hills, and serves over 500 hot meals three times a week. Guests include veterans, senior citizens, those who are disabled, and those with special needs. Birthdays are celebrated and hygiene kits, pet food, clothes, blankets, tents and other items are also distributed.
Assemblymember Gabriel presents Pastor April Belt with a Resolution in recognition of New Friends Homeless Center.
Assemblymember Gabriel with Pastor April Belt of New Friends Homeless Center, along with members of his District Office staff and Encino Neighborhood Council President Alex Garay, pose for a photo while serving dinner to guests at New Friends in Encino on December 18, 2018.