Image
Due to potential wildfire inducing conditions, PG&E has issued a Public Safety Power Shutoff (PSPS) Warning for a large portion of Contra Costa and Alameda counties beginning on Wednesday morning October 9th, and estimated to last through Thursday, October 10th or possibly longer. My office is in constant communication with PG&E as well as cities, school districts, public safety agencies and utilities in our district. While the exact locations of the possible shut off are still to be determined depending on conditions, it’s important to do several things to prepare:
Plan for medical needs like medications that require refrigeration or devices that need power.
Identify backup charging methods for phones and keep hard copies of emergency numbers.
Build or restock your emergency kit with flashlights, fresh batteries, first aid supplies and cash.
Ensure your contact information with PG&E is up to date so that you receive the latest updates as well as the county community warning system.
Police will conduct welfare checks by request by calling the nonemergency number, but please check on your elderly and infirm neighbors, friends and family to take some of the stress off of Police Services during the PSPS.
I would also like to take this time to share pertinent information our office has received related to PSPS.
PG&E PSPS Updates
Update your contact information at pge.com/mywildfirealerts or by calling 1-866-743- 6589 during normal business hours. PG&E will use this information to alert customers through automated calls, texts, and emails, when possible, prior to, and during, a PSPS.
To get latest information about PSPS visit:
https://www.pge.com/pspsupdates
You can check if your address will be impacted by the PSPS at:
https://www.arcgis.com/apps/ZoneLookup/index.html?appid=a03b33b27c4040c…
PG&E and public safety social media accounts are also good sources of the latest information.
Community Resource Centers (CRC) In order to support residents in the affected areas, Community Resource Centers will be open beginning on Wednesday, October 9, at 8 a.m. The centers will remain open during daylight hours only. Restrooms, bottled water, electronic-device charging and air-conditioned seating available at these facilities.
PG&E Operated CRC:
Bishop Ranch Parking Lot – 2600 Camino Ramon, San Ramon 94583
City of Orinda Operated CRC:
Orinda Community Center, 28 Orinda Way, Orinda CA 94563
EBMUD has staged generators at critical facilities in preparation for a PSPS event. EBMUD strike teams are mobilizing now to maintain continuous operations during this period. They are asking customers in the affected areas to conserve water by reducing indoor water use and shutting off outdoor irrigation.
Customers can use the map of affected areas at
www.ebmud.com/psps2019
to determine if they will be impacted by the shutoff.
They will provide up-to-date information on ebmud.com and on social media pages.
Customers in the Lamorinda area affected by the fire will not loose water services through East Bay Mud.
Public Transit
BART should have uninterrupted service, and BART stations in affected areas will be running on generators. Some stations might have intermittent power outages, affecting elevators, escalators, and lights. You can sign-up for alerts at
https://www.bart.gov/news/alerts
County Connection If power outages go into effect it may impact Paratransit trips.
There may be significant delays to your trips. Please expect longer than usual hold times, drivers may not be able to reach dispatch to make same day changes to your trips.
Passengers are encouraged to postpone non-essential trips for a later date
Drivers will not be able to make detours to your trip as a result of power outages.
Communicate with your dialysis unit or medical doctor on their current schedule.
Traffic Safety
Most traffic lights will go out once battery backup is exhausted. Treat all depowered traffic signals as a four way stop. Drive slow and be cautious when using depowered intersections.
School Districts
Most school districts have stated that they will remain open if possible and as long as it is a safe and healthy environment for children. The best source of information about school closures is your school district website and social media pages.
Community Alert Systems
NIXLE Alerts: To sign up to receive alerts from your local police department with city-specific information about the shutdown:
https://local.nixle.com/register/
Alameda County’s warning system:
www.acalert.org
Contra Costa County’s Community Warning System:
https://cwsalerts.com/registration/
Our office will be open throughout the week and will continue to actively monitor the situation and keep in contact with local agencies. Please contact our us if you are having any difficulty with state agencies in relation to the PSPS or if you need assistance accessing services.