SACRAMENTO
, Calif.
—Today, Assemblymember Buffy Wicks (D-Oakland) issued the following statement in response to Governor Gavin Newsom’s first State of the State address:
“
In his first State of the State address, Governor Newsom showed us why California truly is the keeper of our nation’s future. Governor Newsom has it right: the fear-mongering and scapegoating emanating from the White House won't solve our problems. California and the United States can only overcome our shared challenges if we stand up for truth and work hard—together."
“Governor Newsom put it perfectly: ‘California should never be a place where only the well-off can lead a good life.’ To make California a place where anyone can succeed, we must tear down the invisible walls we’ve built in our communities. Working together, we can answer Governor Newsom’s call to protect renters, build homes for all Californians, and make sure our homeless neighbors get the care and support they deserve. I share in the dream of a future California where everyone is housed. I'm excited to roll up my sleeves with Governor Newsom, my colleagues in the Legislature, organized labor, and my fellow community members in the East Bay to make universal housing a reality.
“On healthcare, Governor Newsom has the right prescription: fighting consolidation and hospital closures, expanding access to affordable public healthcare, and working toward a single-payer system. On jobs, I share Governor Newsom's vision for a well-paid, well-educated workforce that receives a fair share of the incredible value created by California’s workers.
“Governor Newsom has laid out a fact-based framework for how we can use our collective power to turn the tide on rising housing costs, climate change, stagnant wages, and increased inequality. California offers a hopeful vision for America—now it’s up to all of us to prove we can achieve it.”
###
Assemblymember Buffy Wicks represents California’s 15th Assembly District, which includes all or portions of the cities of Oakland, Richmond, Berkeley, Emeryville, Albany, El Cerrito, San Pablo, Pinole, El Sobrante, Hercules, Kensington, and Piedmont. You can learn more about Assemblymember Wicks at
http://a14.asmdc.org
.