Torrance, CA
–Assemblymember Al Muratsuchi (D-Torrance)’s Assembly Bill 39 that will help raise California to the top ten in the nation in per pupil spending passed the Assembly Floor today. This bill proposes funding targets for California’s Local Control Funding Formula (LCFF) to establish a plan for increasing the state’s K-12 funding by $35 billion over an unspecified number of years. This increase would ensure that all school districts have full and fair funding to cover increasing fixed costs and improve education for all California public school students. These funding targets are similar to those adopted in 2013, which established the plan to restore $31 billion in Proposition 98 funding in the last seven years.
“California needs to renew our commitment to make K-12 education funding the highest priority in the state budget,” declared Assemblymember Muratsuchi.  “For too long, California has been below the national average in per pupil K-12 funding. This bill will establish strong school funding targets to provide full and fair funding for all California children, regardless of where they live. Full and fair funding is necessary to provide good public schools, hire good teachers, reduce class sizes and provide the necessary student support services so that all children can succeed.”
This bill uses the existing Local Control Funding Formula and proposes a 58 percent increase to the 2018-19 cost of LCFF, which is equal to approximately $35 billion above the current funding level. The funding increase is designed to ensure that districts are able to cover increased fixed costs by expanding the Base Grant portion of the LCFF, which provides the greatest spending flexibility for districts. This bill seeks to bring California up to the top ten in the nation in per pupil spending.
Assemblymember Al Muratsuchi, the Assistant Majority Leader for Policy and Research, represents California’s 66
th
Assembly District, which includes El Camino Village, Gardena, Harbor City, Harbor Gateway, Hermosa Beach, Lomita, Los Angeles, Manhattan Beach, Palos Verdes Estates, Rancho Palos Verdes, Redondo Beach, Rolling Hills, Rolling Hills Estates, Torrance, and West Carson. Muratsuchi is the Chair of the Assembly Select Committee on Aerospace, and is a member of the Assembly Committees on Budget, Budget Subcommittee on Education Finance, Environmental Safety and Toxic Materials, Natural Resources, Utilities and Energy, and Veterans Affairs.
CONTACT:
Kerry Jacob, Kerry.Jacob@asm.ca.gov, 310-806-0893