(Sacramento, CA) –
Assemblymember James C. Ramos
(D – Highland) is proud to announce AB 433, requiring crime victims and their attorneys be made aware of early termination of probation, has cleared the Senate Public Safety Committee.
“In cases where a restitution order has been granted by a judge and there is an early termination of probation, if this order is not finalized, the victim can be saddled with immense financial cost alongside the burden of victimization. This bill gives victims a voice and ensures they have the opportunity to seek restitution through the judicial process,” said
Assemblymember Ramos
.
AB 433 requires a hearing in open court before early termination of probation, and provides notice to crime victims and their prosecutor. Currently, there is no requirement to notify crime victims when a probation term is terminated early by the court’s order. This can lead to situations where victims are unaware of the termination of their offenders’ probation. For victims of interpersonal or domestic violence, this can be especially problematic, as the terms of probation may include bans on contacting specific people.
In some cases, the court may withhold a restitution order until further hearings beyond an initial sentencing hearing.
“Crime victims deserve the right to have their voice heard in open court if their offender is about to receive early termination of probation. This is a matter of doing right by crime victims by following a process that is fair and doesn’t leave to question the status of their offender’s probation. We are proud to work with Assemblymember Ramos on AB 433 and hope it will quickly pass the Senate to arrive on the Governor’s desk,” said
Harriet Salarno, Chair of Crime Victims United of California
, a bill sponsor.
In conjunction with Marsy’s Law, which constitutionally mandates proper restitution for victims of crime, this bill will ensure victim and prosecuting attorney the opportunity to seek restitution before the decision of early termination of probation.
AB 433 will now move to the Senate Appropriations Committee.
###
For Immediate Release
Tuesday, June 25, 2019
Contact: Brendan Wiles (909) 476-5023
Follow Assemblymember Ramos on social media: Facebook
@AsmJamesRamos
/ Twitter
@AsmJamesRamos
/ Instagram
@asmjamesramos
Assemblymember James Ramos proudly represents the 40
th
Assembly district which includes Highland, Loma Linda, Mentone, Rancho Cucamonga, Redlands, and San Bernardino.