(Sacramento, CA) –
Assemblymember James C. Ramos
(D – Highland) is pleased to report his bill clarifying who is legally held accountable for operating a vessel on our state’s waterways has passed the Assembly Transportation Committee.
“We can’t have dangerous loopholes that allow ambiguity, when creating laws that intend to keep us safe. By expanding the definition of operator to include the adult responsible for operation of the vessel, especially in cases of supervising a minor that is operating a vessel, we can improve the safety of our waterways and the security and peace of mind of all those who enjoy them,” said
Assemblymember Ramos.
Current law regarding vessel operation is based on motor vehicle law, which defines the operator as whoever is steering the boat. Because of the differences between driving a vehicle and operating a vessel, this mismatch has created situations where it can become difficult for public safety officers to enforce proper behavior on the state’s water ways.
Tragically, AB 1183 was spurred by a case where a 14 year-old operator ran over and killed a 12-year old, while the supervising adult on the vessel was found to be under the influence. In this instance, the current definition of operator was too loose, given he wasn’t technically steering the vessel, and the adult was not charged.
AB 1183, sponsored by the
California State Sheriffs’ Association
and joint-authored by
Assemblymember Jay Obernolte
(R – Hesperia), ensures that those who engage in reckless and dangerous behavior are held to account. It is not uncommon to find minors operating a vessel under the supervision of an adult who is under the influence. By closing the loophole of defining who is the operator, adults can now be held criminally liable for operating a vessel under the influence or for other violations, should an unlicensed, underage person be driving the boat.
AB 1183 passed will now head to the Assembly Appropriations Committee.
###
For Immediate Release
Tuesday, April 9, 2019
Contact: Brendan Wiles (909) 476-5023
Follow Assemblymember Ramos on social media: Facebook
@AsmJamesRamos
/ Twitter
@AsmJamesRamos
/ Instagram
@asmjamesramos
Assemblymember James Ramos proudly represents the 40
th
Assembly district which includes Highland, Loma Linda, Mentone, Rancho Cucamonga, Redlands, and San Bernardino.