SACRAMENTO — In an effort to assist coastal communities with adaptation to climate change, the Assembly Natural Resources Committee voted 11-0 to pass Assemblywoman Cottie Petrie-Norris’ Assembly Bill 65 (AB 65) on Monday, March 25, 2019. Proposition 68, approved by California voters on June 5, 2018, authorizes $40 million to address sea-level rise; and AB 65 prioritizes projects that utilize green-natural infrastructure for coastal adaptation. With 66% of Californians living in coastal communities, millions of people and billions of dollars are directly at risk from the threat of sea level rise.
“We must act now to safeguard California and protect our coast,” said Assemblywoman Cottie Petrie-Norris (D-Laguna Beach). “AB 65 will invest in green infrastructure solutions that are proven to work. Because when we protect nature, nature protects us.”
Green infrastructure is a cost-effective, resilient approach to managing natural weather patterns and maintaining an ecosystem where all life is able to thrive, which is crucial to our planet’s health. Examples of green infrastructure include tidal marshes, reefs, seagrass, land conservation, rain gardens, permeable pavements, urban tree canopies and much more. Natural restoration projects not only protect the coast – they restore ecosystems, improve recreation and access opportunities, and support coastal economies.
WHAT OTHERS ARE SAYING:
CA Coastkeeper Alliance:
“Sea level rise threatens California’s vibrant coastal ecosystems, communities, and economy, and requires immediate action to protect and preserve our coastline. Assembly Bill 65 will provide the resources and strategies that California needs to adapt to rising ocean levels, while providing multiple benefits to both wildlife and the public.”
Azul:
“As a strong supporter of Proposition 68 and the investments it made to assist coastal communities with adapting to the impacts of climate change, Azul is proud to support AB 65 and its effort to encourage natural solutions that provide multiple co-benefits. Azul realizes that the impacts of climate change along the coast are already visible and that there is an immediate need for local communities that rely on marine resources for their livelihoods to thoughtfully adapt to these impacts. Because of this, we appreciate the additional effort that AB 65 promotes in building long term coastal resiliency by prioritizing the use of natural infrastructure solutions. By doing this, this bill ensures that as the state adapts to the impacts of a changing climate, it is utilizing the best options available.”
CA Native Plant Society:
As an organization committed to the protection of the state's native flora, the California Native Plant Society (CNPS) supports AB 65 and its emphasis on using natural infrastructure in climate adaptation. The use of built infrastructure in mitigating the impacts of climate change, particularly along the coast, has several unintended consequences for nearby ecosystems and on the environment, including on native plant life. In contrast, natural infrastructure, which has been proven to be equally if not more effective than built alternatives, when designed to mimic natural processes and preserve biodiversity can result in alternatives better blend into their surroundings with minimal impacts. CNPS supports AB 65 because it encourages the State Coastal Conservancy to prioritize using natural infrastructure solutions to climate change whenever possible. We believe this is the best way to build long-term coastal climate resiliency.
California Trout:
“CalTrout is thrilled to support AB 65. CalTrout’s State of the Salmonids Report that catalogs all 32 native trout and salmonid species in California identifies climate change as one of the biggest threats to our native fisheries. We are constantly looking for innovative strategies to prepare for this inevitability and to invest in protecting climate resilient natural infrastructure like our volcanic source water areas in Northern California and our dwindling estuary systems along the coasts. By investing in the Green Infrastructure highlighted by Petrie-Norris’s AB 65, we take an important step for preserving California not only for our salmonids, but for all Californians.”
Ocean Conservancy:
“Ocean Conservancy wholeheartedly supports AB 65 Sea-Level Rise: Investing in Green Infrastructure, which is a forward-looking, effective way to prioritize state spending in a way that helps our coastal communities and ecosystems. Green infrastructure, also called natural infrastructure, provides multiple benefits to Californians – it is a cost-effective way to adapt to sea level rise, reduce risks from flooding and storm surge, support our state’s important fisheries and habitats, and provide recreational opportunities and access to green spaces. Prioritizing green infrastructure is a coastal and ocean-smart solution for coastal adaptation, and we are excited to support this legislation.”
California League of Conservation Voters:
“The threat to our coasts have never been more real. Last June, voters passed Prop 68 to prepare us for the future and get us ready for increase climate impacts. This bill will ensure our vulnerable communities, economies, and natural resources are a priority in Prop 68 implementation.” –Mary Creasman, CEO of CLCV.
Sierra Club:
“Working with nature, and using natural infrastructure to respond to sea level rise is possible and sensible. AB 65 is a significant step toward making that sensible approach part of California’s essential coastal policy.”
AB 65 will next be heard in the Assembly Appropriations Committee.