SACRAMENTO – In an effort to ensure local input is considered regarding the future use of Fairview Developmental Center in Costa Mesa, California, Assemblywoman Cottie Petrie-Norris authored Assembly Bill 1199, which would require the Department of General Services (DGS) to hold a public hearing. Today, AB 1199 passed the Senate Floor 40-0, receiving final approval from the Legislature with strong bi-partisan support.
Under current practices, when more than one state agency is interested in a surplus property, there is an internal process that involves DGS, the Department of Finance, and the Governor’s Office to determine the property’s use.
“A number of my constituents and local stakeholders have been incredibly engaged on the future of the Fairview Developmental Center property,” said
Assemblywoman Cottie Petrie-Norris (D-Laguna Beach)
. “It is only right for our local community to have a say in the future use of the land. I want to ensure that – when the Fairview property enters the surplus property process – my constituents are provided a level of transparency and community engagement on the local level.”
The Fairview Developmental Center is located on 114 acre state-owned land. Having been open since 1959, the facility has served people with developmental and intellectual disabilities for 60 years. Fairview is run by the Department of Developmental Services which is in the process of moving 70 residents to smaller, community group homes. This is part of a broader strategic shift in California on how best to deliver services. This transition will be complete by the end of the 2019, when Fairview is expected to close. Following the state decision to close the site, Assemblywoman Petrie-Norris introduced Assembly Bill 1199, which will ensure a level of transparency and community engagement at the local level regarding the property.
The bill is supported by the Association of Regional Center Agencies and the City of Costa Mesa. AB 1099 will now be considered by the Governor.