(Sacramento, CA) –
Assemblymember James C. Ramos
(D – Highland) is proud to announce AB 433, requiring crime victims and their attorneys be made aware of early termination of probation, has cleared the Senate and will head to the Governor’s desk to be considered for law.
“In cases where a restitution order has been granted by a judge and there is an early termination of probation, if this order is not finalized, the victim can be saddled with immense financial cost alongside the burden of victimization. This bill gives victims a voice and ensures they have the opportunity to seek restitution through the judicial process,” said
Assemblymember Ramos
.
AB 433 provides a two-day notification to the victim of crime of an early termination of probation in cases where restitution has already been granted by a judge. Currently, there is no requirement to notify crime victims when a probation term is terminated early by the court’s order. This can lead to situations where victims are unaware of the termination of their offenders’ probation. For victims of interpersonal or domestic violence, this can be especially problematic, as the terms of probation may include bans on contacting specific people.
In some cases, the court may withhold a restitution order until further hearings beyond an initial sentencing hearing.
“Crime victims deserve the right to have their voice heard in open court if their offender is about to receive early termination of probation. This is a matter of doing right by crime victims by following a process that is fair and doesn’t leave to question the status of their offender’s probation. We are proud to work with Assemblymember Ramos on AB 433 and hope it will be signed by the Governor,” said
Harriet Salarno, Chair of Crime Victims United of California
, a bill sponsor.
In conjunction with Marsy’s Law, which constitutionally mandates proper restitution for victims of crime, this bill will ensure victim and prosecuting attorney the opportunity to seek restitution before the decision of early termination of probation.
The Governor will have until October 13 to sign or veto AB 433. If he does not sign or veto by the deadline the bill automatically becomes law.
###
For Immediate Release
Tuesday, September 3, 2019
Contact: Brendan Wiles (909) 476-5023
Follow Assemblymember Ramos on social media: Facebook
@AsmJamesRamos
/ Twitter
@AsmJamesRamos
/ Instagram
@asmjamesramos
Assemblymember James Ramos proudly represents the 40
th
Assembly district which includes Highland, Loma Linda, Mentone, Rancho Cucamonga, Redlands, and San Bernardino.
Assemblymember James Ramos secured $16 million in state funding for the 40th Assembly District in the 2019-2020 State Budget.
Click here to read more.