(Sacramento, CA) –
Today,
Assemblymember James C. Ramos’s
(D – Highland) bill assisting veterans with cybersecurity employment has unanimously passed the Senate Veterans Affairs Committee.
“When our veterans return home and seek civilian employment, it’s important they know we’re there for them. For veterans who have previous cybersecurity experience and have a security clearance, this bill will help them quickly transition from military service to their new career,” said
Assemblymember Ramos
.
Assembly Bill 1376 will require the California Department of Veteran Affairs to collaborate with specific state agencies to establish a veterans’ preference system towards employment opportunities within the field of cybersecurity that require a security clearance. In addition, this bill requires state agencies hiring for cybersecurity positions to establish a uniform hiring policy for veterans with security clearance backgrounds.
Assembly Bill 1376 received support from the
Disabled American Veterans (DAV) Department of California
and joint authored by
Assemblymember Eloise Gómez Reyes
(D – Grand Terrace).
“The Disabled American Veterans (DAV), Department of California wishes to thank Assemblymembers Ramos and Reyes for their steadfast leadership in crafting this bill.  The bipartisan vote for this bill by the State Assembly clearly indicates our State's veterans are an important asset and readily available resource in the development of California's cybersecurity workforce, recognizing it also provides a pathway and opportunity to improve the lives of our veterans, transitioning military, disabled veterans and their families,” said
Richard Valdez, DAV Legislative Director.
AB 1376 will now move to the Senate Labor, Public Employment, and Retirement Committee.
###
For Immediate Release
Tuesday, June 11, 2019
Contact: Brendan Wiles (909) 476-5023
Follow Assemblymember Ramos on social media: Facebook
@AsmJamesRamos
/ Twitter
@AsmJamesRamos
/ Instagram
@asmjamesramos
Assemblymember James Ramos proudly represents the 40
th
Assembly district which includes Highland, Loma Linda, Mentone, Rancho Cucamonga, Redlands, and San Bernardino.