No. Long Beach, Calif --- Assemblymember Mike A. Gipson is proud to announce the selection of Love Beyond Limits as the 2019 California Nonprofit of the Year in the 64th Assembly District.
Founder and President Maleka Chris will travel to Sacramento next week to join with 100 other nonprofit leaders to be honored by their State senators and assemblymembers during a celebration luncheon as part of California Nonprofits Day on June 5th.
“I am proud to recognize an organization that transforms the lives of young women every day through their work and commitment,” said Asm. Gipson.  “Maleka and her team are the change agents that we so desperately need and appreciate in our communities.”
The mission of Love Beyond Limits is to change and enhance the lives of young ladies by promoting and developing self-awareness, self-respect, high self-esteem and independence through academics, health, fitness and spirituality.  To give young women the tools to become motivated, self-reliant, and confident while handling life's challenges and enhancing the quality of life.  Focusing on the mind, body, and soul, Love Beyond Limits offers a 13 stone program that addresses image, love, respect, self-esteem, education, the role of a child, mother, and father, abuse, social skills, hygiene, meditation, and accountability.
“Nonprofits are often hidden in plain sight,” explains Jan Masaoka, CEO of the California Association of Nonprofits (CalNonprofits). “California Nonprofits Day is an opportunity for our elected officials to celebrate the good work they see nonprofits doing in their districts, and for everyone to appreciate the collective impact of nonprofits in our communities.”
Additional Background
California Nonprofits Day, now in its fourth year, was formally recognized by Assembly Concurrent Resolution 62, authored by the chair of the Assembly Select Committee on the Nonprofit Sector, Assemblywoman Monique Limón (Santa Barbara), who will speak at the celebration luncheon. Senator Holly Mitchell will keynote the luncheon. The day is organized by Assemblymember Limón and CalNonprofits.
According to “Causes Count,” a 2016 report commissioned by CalNonprofits, the nonprofit sector is the 4th largest industry in the state, employing nearly one million people. Each year, California nonprofits generate over $200 billion in revenue and bring in $40 billion in revenue from outside of California. The unpaid labor contributed by volunteers at nonprofits is equivalent to 450,000 full-time jobs every year.
PDF Copy