Torrance, CA
– Governor Gavin Newsom signed Assemblymember Al Muratsuchi (D-Torrance)’s Assembly Bill 342 today. This bill will help California fight the Trump Administration’s plan to frack and drill for oil in national and state parks and other federal protected lands by prohibiting new pipelines and other infrastructure on state lands that would support new oil and gas production.
The Trump administration is pursuing an aggressive energy policy to open more and more federal land to oil and gas exploration and production with little regard for the environmental impacts. The Bureau of Land Management just last week approved an oil and gas exploration plan that would open up hundreds of thousands of acres of federal land to oil and gas leasing in Central California, ending a five-year moratorium.
“We need to fight the Trump Administration’s plan to frack and drill for oil in some of our most beautiful national and state parks,” said Assemblymember Muratsuchi. “They have already approved new drilling and pipelines in the wildflower rich Carrizo Plain National Monument near San Luis Obispo. Other protected lands like the Giant Sequoia National Monument near the Sierra Nevada mountain range are at risk. By prohibiting the issuance of new oil infrastructure leases on state lands, AB 342 is sending a clear message to Trump that we will fight to protect these beautiful lands for current and future generations.”
While federal land use determinations are outside of state jurisdiction, California does have jurisdiction over the use of state lands, including leasing authority in those areas. If an oil or gas lease is authorized on federal land, production from that lease often requires supporting infrastructure on state land in order to start and sustain production, as well as to facilitate transport of oil and gas.
Assemblymember Al Muratsuchi, the Assistant Majority Leader for Policy and Research, represents California’s 66
th
Assembly District, which includes El Camino Village, Gardena, Harbor City, Harbor Gateway, Hermosa Beach, Lomita, Los Angeles, Manhattan Beach, Palos Verdes Estates, Rancho Palos Verdes, Redondo Beach, Rolling Hills, Rolling Hills Estates, Torrance, and West Carson. Muratsuchi is the Chair of the Assembly Select Committee on Aerospace, and is a member of the Assembly Committees on Budget, Budget Subcommittee on Education Finance, Environmental Safety and Toxic Materials, Natural Resources, Utilities and Energy, and Veterans Affairs.
CONTACT:
Kerry Jacob, 310-806-0893