(Sacramento, CA) –
Assemblymember James C. Ramos
(D-Highland) is pleased to announce that AB 685 and 686, protecting Native American families and granting modern access to court proceedings where the Indian Child Welfare Act (ICWA) may apply, has passed the Assembly Human Services Committee.
“As the first California Native American in the Legislature and Chair of the Assembly Select Committee on Native American Affairs, I understand the responsibility of upholding culture and tradition by keeping families and tribes intact. It is a sad history that so many Indian children were forcibly removed from homes and placed into foster care, robbing them of our shared culture. By modernizing Indian Welfare Act court proceedings and providing grants for legal services in such cases, we can ensure it functions in the best interest of Indian children, families, tribes, and the community,” said
Assemblymember Ramos
.
The ICWA became law in 1978 following congressional hearings that found Native American children were six to seven times more likely to be placed in foster care than non-native children, with between 25 to 35 percent of Indian children having been placed in foster care. Under ICWA, tribes were granted more influence in child custody, in effort to keep families intact.
AB 686, joint-authored with
Assemblymember Marie Waldron
(R-Escondido) and sponsored by the
California Tribal Families Coalition
, will account for geographic and economic limitations that often prevent families from fully participating in court proceedings. In such ICWA proceedings AB 686 will ensure access to telephonic, electronic, or other computerized remote access options for court appearances.
AB 685, joint-authored with
Assemblymember Eloise
Gómez Reyes
(D-Grand Terrace), will establish legal counsel for tribes in juvenile dependency cases where ICWA applies.
Both bills will now move to the Assembly Judiciary Committee.
###
For Immediate Release
Thursday, March 28, 2019
Contact: Brendan Wiles (909) 476-5023
Follow Assemblymember Ramos on social media: Facebook @AsmJamesRamos / Twitter @AsmJamesRamos / Instagram @asmjamesramos
Assemblymember James Ramos proudly represents the 40th Assembly district which includes Highland, Loma Linda, Mentone, Rancho Cucamonga, Redlands, and San Bernardino.