SACRAMENTO –
A proposal by Assemblymember Mike A. Gipson (D-Carson) to establish a network of Youth Drop-In Centers was included in the 2019 State Budget signed by Governor Gavin Newsom.
“In California, and especially in my communities, children suffer from the lack of access to mental health services. These youth who have unmet mental health needs are at higher risk for school and job failure, homelessness, and entering the criminal justice system. Investing in both mental health services and our children is the most common sense approach to addressing many of the most pressing issues that our society faces today,” said Assemblymember Mike A. Gipson.
The budget now contains a $15 million appropriation allocated to counties, which would, in partnership with the Mental Health Services Oversight and Accountability Commission, establish a youth-driven approach to providing a comprehensive set of youth services. The youth services provided for in the Youth Drop-In Centers will include health and mental health services, and supportive services for education, social, employment, and housing needs. In addition to the proposal by Assemblymember Gipson, similar legislation was authored by Senator Beall (D-San Jose) to create and fund these centers.
“Youth Drop-In centers are critical resources, outside of school settings, for kids who need help and support and this makes youth the leaders in developing these centers. These community based programs are available to any child who is struggling regardless of their zip code, background or ability to pay for services,” said long-time mental health advocate Senator Jim Beall. “As suicide rates amongst our children rises and depression and anxiety have become a plague on a generation of young Americans, this budget commitment and SB 12 should be the first step in a growing commitment to provide our kids the mental health resources they desperately need.”
#   #   #
Mike Gipson represents the 64
th
Assembly District. The district includes the cities of Carson, Compton, Gardena, Harbor Gateway, Lynwood, North Long Beach, Rancho Dominguez, South Los Angeles, Torrance, Watts/Willowbrook and Wilmington.
CONTACT:
Savannah Mendoza, 916-319-2064, Savannah.Mendoza@asm.ca.gov