(SACRAMENTO)
– Today, the California Legislature passed AB 1783, legislation introduced by Assemblymember Robert Rivas (D-Hollister) to provide quality, dignified housing for farmworkers in California. AB 1783 will now be considered by the Governor.
“I am proud of my colleagues in the Legislature, who have stood up for the needs of farmworkers and their families,” said Rivas. “This bill will provide the opportunity for children of farmworkers throughout the state to climb out of homelessness and move toward the California dream.”
AB 1783, the Farmworker Housing Act of 2019, creates a new streamlined process—cutting through red tape—to build housing on agricultural land. AB 1783 focuses state financial support for farmworker housing that is dignified, permanent and family oriented, rather than for a temporary guest worker program.
Civil rights icon Dolores Huerta hailed the passage of AB 1783 as a milestone in farmworker rights: “I thank Assemblyman Robert Rivas, the son of farmworkers, for standing up for our hardworking families who deserve decent, safe housing in California. I am in strong support of AB 1783, which fills the desperate need for farmworker housing. It is an important first step in addressing our farmworker housing crisis and an opportunity for employers and farmworkers to work together. I urge Governor Newsom to sign this bill into law,” said Huerta.
“I applaud my fellow legislators for their continued support of the bill and commitment to addressing California’s housing crisis,” Rivas continued. “I urge the Governor to sign the Farmworker Housing Act of 2019—one of the few remaining housing bills left in this legislative session. Then, we can begin to provide farmworkers and their families the relief and dignity that they desperately need and deserve.”
AB 1783 is supported by many local governments, including the counties of San Benito and Santa Cruz, and the cities of Hollister, Morgan Hill, Salinas, San Juan Bautista and Soledad.
Assemblymember Robert Rivas (D-Hollister) represents the 30
th
Assembly District. This district includes the communities of Aromas, Big Sur, Chualar, Gilroy, Greenfield, Gonzales, Hollister, King City, Morgan Hill, Salinas, San Juan Bautista, Soledad, Spreckels, and Watsonville.