AB 1475 provides options for Regional Transportation Agencies to streamline projects, allowing for a proven, cost saving delivery method for transportation projects
(
Sacramento, CA
) – Today, Assemblymember Rebecca Bauer-Kahan had her bill AB 1475 signed into law by Governor Gavin Newsom – her fifth since taking office. AB 1475 allows Regional Transportation Authorities (RTA) to utilize an innovative method for transportation projects.
“AB 1475 began as a bill specifically for a project in San Ramon which would allow the Contra Costa Transportation Authority to utilize a cost saving project model that would connect the Iron Horse Trail to regional transportation hubs” said Bauer-Kahan. “The model created was so sought after, that were happy to extend this option to other RTAs in California to help deliver projects on time and under budget – saving valuable tax dollars. I’m thrilled to see the Governor’s support of this important bill”
Existing law does not authorize RTAs to utilize the “Construction Manager/ General Contractor (CM/GC)” project delivery method, to expeditiously design and build projects that are not on the state highway system. CM/GC essentially allows for the collaboration of the project designers/engineers and general contractors early in the project process to ensure that the project is carried out in the most streamlined and cost effective method.  AB 1475 authorizes RTAs to employ CM/GC.
The Caltrans 2017-18 Efficiency Report cited a $44.5 million dollar savings by using the CM/GC delivery process.
“We’re very grateful to Assemblymember Bauer-Kahan for her leadership in ensuring that our agency – and local agencies across the state – can now utilize this innovative project delivery method to deliver the best projects at the best price to the taxpayers who fund our work”, said Contra Costa Transportation Authority Executive Director Randy Iwasaki.
AB 1475 passed the Senate and the Assembly with broad bipartisan support and will take effect in January 2020.