SACRAMENTO, CA –
This week, Governor Newsom signed Assembly Bills 530 and 632 by Assemblymember Cecilia Aguiar-Curry (D-Winters) to benefit Solano and Lake Counties.  AB 530 allows the Fairfield-Suisun Sewer District to expand its services into Middle Green Valley in Solano County. AB 632 allows Lake County to consolidate the elected offices of the Auditor-Controller and the Treasurer-Tax Collector into one single elected office. Both bills received overwhelming bipartisan support by the Legislature
“I am incredibly proud that the Governor quickly signed these two important bills for my constituents in Assembly District 4,” said Assemblymember Aguiar-Curry. “These bills come as a result of months of work with local stakeholders. Both AB 530 and AB 632 will directly benefit people in Solano and Lake Counties, and that is why it was my priority to introduce and pass these bills early this year.”
AB 530,
co-authored by Senator Bill Dodd (D-Napa), allows the Fairfield-Suisun Sewer District to serve Middle Green Valley if approved by the Solano Local Agency Formation Commission.  The Fairfield-Suisun Sewer District performs wastewater collection and treatment, and water recycling services in Solano County, but requires express authorization in the law in order to expand its service area. AB 530 facilitates the development of 400 new homes in Middle Green Valley by allowing the Sewer District to service these new homes.
“In 2017, Solano County approved the development of 400 new homes in Middle Green Valley, but the authority for the Fairfield-Suisun Sewer District to service those homes requires legislation,” said Aguiar-Curry. “AB 530 facilitates the development process, and ensures that the future residents of Middle Green Valley have access to a public sewer system.”
AB 632
, co-authored by Senator Mike McGuire (D-Healdsburg), gives Lake County the ability to combine the positions of the Auditor-Controller and the Treasurer-Tax Collector into one. Combining these elected positions can lead to greater efficiency and collaboration, while cutting down on county costs. Five other counties currently have this authority, and the counties of Santa Cruz, Sonoma, and Tulare have already combined the two offices.
Over the past six years, Lake County has been ravaged by wildfires that burned a majority of the county’s land and destroyed nearly 2,600 structures. No other county in California has experienced wildfires so frequently, and as a result the County faces additional budgetary challenges.
“I do everything I can to support the recovery and resilience of Lake County. The signing of AB 632 gives Lake County another tool to cut down on costs, while continuing to provide important local services to residents,” said Aguiar-Curry. “The combined Auditor-Controller-Treasurer-Tax Collector position would still be elected by the voters, ensuring that the people of Lake County continue to have a voice in their county’s government.”
Now law, AB 530 will take effect immediately as an urgency statue. AB 632 will take effect on January 1, 2020.
Aguiar-Curry represents the 4th Assembly District, which includes all of Lake and Napa Counties, parts of Colusa, Solano and Sonoma Counties, and all of Yolo County except West Sacramento.
###