CARSON, Calif --- Assemblymember Mike A. Gipson (D-Carson) will host a transformational one-day conference “Saving Our Sons” for boys of color in middle school and high school, wards of the court, continuation school students, youth on probation and those residing in foster and group homes.
The pivotal event will be held at California State University Dominguez Hills on Saturday, August 3, 2019 from 7:30 a.m. (registration) to 2:00 p.m. and will include breakout sessions, lunch, tie-tying lesson, free haircuts (pre-registered) and backpack giveaway.
Some of the program topics include “A Generation that Can;” “The Marathon Continues;” “Chin Up and Check In;” “I Don’t Know Anyone; I’m Confused;” “Why Did You Stop Me?;” “How Do I Break the Cycle – Show Me;” and more.  The keynote speaker for the conference is Grammy Award winning recording artist Jay Rock who was born and raised in Watts. He is widely recognized for overcoming adversity and for the strong work ethic he demonstrated as he convalesced from a serious motorcycle accident.
Asm. Gipson has partnered with local non-profits and stakeholders who also support the positive advancement of this at-risk demographic. They include Challenging Minds, Inc.; the City of Carson; SIA Tech; LA County Probation Dept.; Hands Without Guns; 100 Black Men of Long Beach, and more
“Over the years, this event has proved to be a day of empowerment and possibilities. It is now more important than ever that we inform and engage our young men in important conversations in addition to providing them with tools to work through situations and blueprints for success,” said Gipson.
California State University, Dominguez Hills is located at 1000 E. Victoria St., Carson, CA  90747. Admission is free with registration online at https://www.eventbrite.com/e/saving-our-sons-tickets-64267110658. For more information, please call (310) 324-6408.
Assemblymember Gipson represents the 64th Assembly District which includes Carson, Compton, Gardena, Harbor Gateway, Lynwood, North Long Beach, Rancho Dominguez, South L.A., Torrance, Watts/Willowbrook and Wilmington.
PDF Copy