(Sacramento, CA) –
Assemblymember James C. Ramos
(D – Highland) is excited that his bill assisting veterans with cybersecurity employment has cleared the Assembly and will continue on to the Senate.
“When our veterans return home and seek civilian employment, it’s important they know we’re there for them. For veterans who have previous cybersecurity experience and have a security clearance, this bill will help them quickly transition from military service to their new career,” said
Assemblymember Ramos
.
Assembly Bill 1376 will require the California Department of Veteran Affairs to collaborate with state agencies to establish a veterans’ preference system towards employment opportunities within the field of cybersecurity that require a security clearance. This preference system applies to any veteran who has held a security clearance in the year prior and has left the military in good standing or was honorably discharged.
Assembly Bill 1376 received support from the
Disabled American Veterans (DAV) Department of California
and joint authored by
Assemblymember Eloise Gómez Reyes
(D – Grand Terrace).
“The Disabled American Veterans (DAV), Department of California wishes to thank Assemblymembers Ramos and Reyes for their steadfast leadership in crafting this bill.  The bipartisan vote for this bill by the State Assembly clearly indicates our State's veterans are an important asset and readily available resource in the development of California's cybersecurity workforce, recognizing it also provides a pathway and opportunity to improve the lives of our veterans, transitioning military, disabled veterans and their families,” said
Richard Valdez, DAV Legislative Director.
AB 1376 will now move to the Senate.
###
For Immediate Release
Wednesday, May 22, 2019
Contact: Brendan Wiles (909) 476-5023
Follow Assemblymember Ramos on social media: Facebook
@AsmJamesRamos
/ Twitter
@AsmJamesRamos
/ Instagram
@asmjamesramos
Assemblymember James Ramos proudly represents the 40
th
Assembly district which includes Highland, Loma Linda, Mentone, Rancho Cucamonga, Redlands, and San Bernardino.