SACRAMENTO – Today Assemblymember Marc Berman (D- Palo Alto) has the distinct privilege of recognizing Palo Alto resident Dr. Christine Blasey Ford as the 24th Assembly District ‘Woman of the Year’. As a way to highlight outstanding women during Women’s History Month, legislators select one exceptional woman from each Assembly District to honor for her contributions to the community and the state of California.
“It is my honor to recognize Dr. Christine Blasey Ford as the 24th Assembly District’s ‘Woman of the Year.’ In a remarkable act of courage, Dr. Ford put the country ahead of her own well-being, speaking out in the most public way imaginable about her sexual assault,” said Assemblymember Berman. “Dr. Ford exhibited strength and dignity under the most extraordinary conditions, and in telling her truth, she paved the way for countless other survivors to tell their own.”
Dr. Ford is a Biostatistician and Research Psychologist. Since 1998, she has worked in the Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences at the Stanford School of Medicine. She is also a Professor of Psychology in the Stanford-PGSP Consortium for Clinical Psychology, a collaborative program between Palo Alto University and Stanford University.
In the summer of 2018, Dr. Ford contacted her local representative and ultimately came forward publicly to tell the United States Senate Judiciary Committee that she had been sexually assaulted by then U.S. Supreme Court nominee Brett Kavanaugh. Dr. Ford’s decision to come forward and share the details of her painful personal experience was a courageous act of citizenship and sent a searing message across the country that there is power in not remaining silent.
“I thank Assemblymember Berman for publicly recognizing Dr. Christine Blasey Ford as the 24th Assembly District ‘Woman of the Year’,” said Senator Connie M. Leyva (D-Chino), Chair of the California Legislative Women’s Caucus. “Dr. Ford’s tremendous courage and strength are a testament to her civic duty and she will forever be an inspiration to countless Americans—including me—that believe survivors who are willing to risk everything to tell their truth.”
Under immense scrutiny and pressure, Dr. Ford remained steadfast in her truth and inspired legions of sexual assault survivors to speak up and to know that they will be believed, no matter whom their attacker was or how long ago the attack occurred. Dr. Ford was embraced by a generation of young women as a role model for her refusal to be intimidated.
“Over the last few years we have seen women rise up together despite setbacks that force important issues to remain in the shadows,” said Assemblymember Monique Limón (D-Santa Barbara), Vice-Chair of the California Legislative Women’s Caucus. “Dr. Ford is an example of the bravery required to do right thing. I am honored to join Assemblymember Berman in recognizing Dr. Ford for the example she has set for generations to come.”
Dr. Ford’s testimony was a pivotal moment in the history of this nation. Her bravery came at an incalculable price – threats to her safety and security, efforts to undermine her credibility, and loss of her anonymity – but it forever changed the nation’s conscience.
Assemblymember Berman will present Dr. Ford with her award at a private event later this month.
Contact: Kaitlin Curry, (916) 319-2024