FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: July 3rd, 2019
CONTACT: Taylor Woolfork (916) 319-2048
Assemblywoman Blanca Rubio Legislation to Increase Cal Grant Awards Clears Key Policy Committee
SACRAMENTO
– Today, Assembly Bill 1307 authored by Assemblywoman Blanca Rubio (D- Baldwin Park) passed the Senate Education Committee with a unanimous vote. AB 1307 would reinstate the Cal Grant funding formula for students who attend private nonprofit colleges and universities. The formula will bring stability to the award, which has been subjected to cuts since the year 2000, and will see increases over time.
Private nonprofit universities play an integral role in meeting the needs of California students. Throughout the state, these universities serve approximately 15% of students attending college. Despite enrolling a significant number of California students, Cal Grant awards for students attending these universities have not been adjusted since in the last 19 years, providing approximately $9,000 in maximum awards. AB 1307 would significantly increase the award amount to better reflect the increasing costs of attending college.
By increasing the Cal Grant Award for private nonprofit universities, California’s students will gain the ability to choose from a wider range of higher education options, gain financial stability for themselves and their family, and rely less on financing education through student loans.
“As the recipient of two degrees from Azusa Pacific University, I am well aware of the benefits students receive when they attend an independent, nonprofit university in California,” Assemblywoman Rubio said. “I will continue to work on behalf of students to ensure they are afforded the same opportunities many others before them have benefited from, including myself.”
“Student recipients of the Cal Grant award often times must overcome significant odds to apply, qualify, and attend the college or university that best suits their needs,” said the Association of Independent California Colleges and Universities (AICCU) President Kristen Soares. “This award can be the difference between whether or not a student is able to attend the institution that best fits their personal and academic needs, and I am delighted to have the support of Assembly Member Blanca Rubio, who shares our commitment to students, and to bring much-needed stability to the Cal Grant program.”
Assembly Member Rubio received her Bachelor’s Degree in Business Administration and Master’s Degree in Education with a Multiple Subject Teaching Credential from Azusa Pacific University. AB 1307 is a California Latino Legislative Caucus Priority bill, has enjoyed bipartisan support and is co-authored by 20 Members of the Legislature.