(Sacramento, CA) –
Following opening the Assembly with a traditional Native American blessing,
Assemblymember James C. Ramos
(D – Highland) passed House Resolution 55 designating the fourth Friday of every September as California Native American Day with the unanimous support of his colleagues.
“We can never undo the wrongs inflicted on the people who have lived on this land that we now call California, but we can work together to build bridges, tell the truth about California’s past, and begin to heal deep wounds.,” said
Assemblymember Ramos
.
Since 1968, the fourth Friday of September in California has been recognized for Native Americans. For 21 years, that week has also corresponded with the California Indian Cultural Awareness Conference, which is held at California State University San Bernardino. The conference teaches elementary students about California Native American history and its culture. It was founded in 1999 by
Assemblymember Ramos
as a yearly gathering for tribes across California.
California Native American Day comes just two months after
Governor Gavin Newsom
issued a historic apology for past policies in California that encourage and subsidized genocide against California Native Americans. In his executive order, he called for a Truth and Healing Council to clarify the historical record of the relationship between California and California Native Americans.
Established by the Governor’s Tribal Advisor, the Council will work with California Native American Tribes to produce a final written report of their findings before January 1, 2025.
###
For Immediate Release
Monday, August 19, 2019
Contact: Brendan Wiles (909) 476-5023
Follow Assemblymember Ramos on social media: Facebook
@AsmJamesRamos
/ Twitter
@AsmJamesRamos
/ Instagram
@asmjamesramos
Assemblymember James Ramos proudly represents the 40
th
Assembly district which includes Highland, Loma Linda, Mentone, Rancho Cucamonga, Redlands, and San Bernardino.
Assemblymember James Ramos secured $16 million in state funding for the 40th Assembly District in the 2019-2020 State Budget.
Click here to read more.