(SACRAMENTO) –
Assemblymember Robert Rivas (D-Hollister) issued the following statement after Governor Gavin Newsom released his initial budget proposal:
“As a kid who grew up in farmworker housing and went on to become a State Assemblymember, I share Governor Newsom’s commitment to make the California Dream available to all. I applaud the investments in bold new initiatives to help working families, while balancing the need to pay down debt and keep our fiscal house in order.”
“I share the Governor’s goal to help more Californians afford housing and am encouraged by the serious proposed investments to help get that done. I look forward to working together with all leaders and stakeholders to ensure all Californians have roofs over their heads.”
“The Governor is also right to point out the link between transportation and housing. That’s why it’s critical to ensure our roads and transportation systems are well funded to ensure people can travel safely and efficiently from home to work. I also applaud the Governor's recent push for a comprehensive modernization and reinvention of the Department of Motor Vehicles (DMV). I look forward to seeing his team's recommendations for new long-term leadership and reform at the DMV – with an emphasis on improving transparency and more efficiently and effectively serving the people.”
“Access to college is a critical priority and I’m happy to see steps taken to address the issue in the budget. As a community college professor, I saw first-hand the financial challenges students face. That’s why I support the proposal to make a second year of community college tuition free and other investments in financial aid in the budget.”
“And Governor Newsom is spot-on in his effort to make access to quality, affordable health care a top priority. It is imperative we provide all Californians with the care they deserve.”
“I look forward to working with Governor Gavin Newsom, the Senate, and my colleagues in the Assembly to maintain fiscal responsibility, while taking bold steps to help the people of California.
###