New laws are the culmination of this year’s effort by Assemblymember Jesse Gabriel and his colleagues to make California a national leader in gun violence prevention
SACRAMENTO
— Today, Governor Gavin Newsom signed into law a package of bills championed by the Legislature’s Gun Violence Prevention Working Group. The Working Group was organized earlier this year by Assemblymembers Jesse Gabriel (D-San Fernando Valley) and Buffy Wicks (D-Oakland) and launched following a meeting with former Congresswoman Gabrielle Giffords in February 2019.
The signing ceremony was the culmination of a yearlong effort to advance innovative gun safety bills and create a national model for state gun violence prevention. Under the leadership of Assemblymembers Gabriel and Wicks, the Working Group welcomed Congresswoman Giffords to the State Capitol for a legislative roundtable, coordinated an ambitious legislative package, advocated for interstate coordination on gun safety measures, and represented California at the Giffords and March For Our Lives 2020 Presidential Gun Safety Forum in Nevada.
In applauding Governor Newsom for signing these bills, Assemblymember Gabriel and supporters made the following statements:
“Earlier this year, a group of California legislators came to the unfortunate conclusion that we cannot rely on President Trump or his Congressional allies to protect California’s children or our communities,” said
Assemblymember Jesse Gabriel, co-founder is the Legislature’s Gun Violence Prevention Working Group
.  “Over the past several months, while Congressional Republicans have blocked progress on common sense reforms, we have worked collaboratively to advance a package of new gun safety measures at the state level.  We are proud of these new laws and are committed to continuing our efforts next year to ensure that California leads the nation in preventing mass shootings and gun violence.”
“We are grateful to Assemblymember Gabriel for his leadership when it comes to keeping our children and families safe,” said
Samantha Dorf, California Chapter Co-Lead for Moms Demand Action for Gun Sense in America
.  “Moms Demand Action is committed to working to prevent gun violence in all its forms, and we are so grateful to have Assemblymember Gabriel in this fight alongside us. Together, we will continue to work toward a California free from gun violence.”
The 17 new laws include:
AB1548 (Gabriel)
- establishes the California State Nonprofit Security Grant Program (NSGP) to provide security funding to nonprofit organizations at risk of hate-motivated violence.  This legislation builds upon California’s historic commitment to allocate $15 million in security funding in this year’s state budget, which was made following the deadly shooting at the Chabad Synagogue in Poway, California earlier this year.
AB 339 (Irwin/Gabriel)
- will ensure local law enforcement agencies have guidelines so that officers understand when and how to utilize Gun Violence Restraining Orders. These orders are a critical tool that enable law enforcement to temporarily confiscate firearms from individuals who pose an imminent risk of harm to themselves or others.
AB 521 (Berman/Gabriel)
- requires the UC Firearm Violence Research Center to research best practices for medical and mental health providers to prevent firearm-related injury or death.
###
Jesse Gabriel is Assistant Majority Whip of the State Assembly. He represents the 45th Assembly District, which includes much of the west San Fernando Valley. Gabriel currently serves on the Committees on Housing and Community Development, Higher Education, Banking and Finance, Privacy and Consumer Protection, and Appropriations.