Loma Linda surgeon performed the first successful infant to infant heart transplant
(Sacramento, CA) –
Assemblymember James C. Ramos
(D – Highland) will adjourn the Assembly floor session today in the memory of famed and admired Loma Linda pediatric cardiac surgeon Dr. Leonard Bailey. He passed away on May 12 at the age of 76.
Dr. Bailey was a resident of Redlands and worked as a pediatric cardiac surgeon at Loma Linda Children’s Hospital. He graduated from Columbia Union College and earned his medical degree from Loma Linda University School of Medicine in 1969.
Dr. Bailey went on to pioneer human heart transplants for infants, and to build a renowned center for children’s cardiac surgery at Loma Linda University. He remained best known to the public as the doctor behind the surgery on the infant known as Baby Fae.
On October 26, 1984, he performed the first baboon to human heart transplant on Baby Fae. Baby Fae survived for 21 days following the surgery and her case helped focus concern on the plight of babies born with fetal heart defects and the need for organs.
On November 20, 1985, Dr. Bailey performed the first successful infant to infant heart transplant.
Dr. Bailey went on to perform 375 more transplants over his career, including 6,000 non-transplant surgeries, saving thousands of young children’s lives until he retired in 2017.
Dr. Leonard Bailey was known for his kindness, humility, character and love for children.
He is survived by his two sons, Brooks and Connor, along with two granddaughters and his sister, Joan Bailey.
A video of Assemblymember Ramos delivering the adjournment in Dr. Bailey’s memory will later be posted on Assemblymember Ramos’s website and social media accounts.
###
For Immediate Release
Friday, May 24, 2019
Contact: Brendan Wiles (909) 476-5023
Follow Assemblymember Ramos on social media: Facebook
@AsmJamesRamos
/ Twitter
@AsmJamesRamos
/ Instagram
@asmjamesramos
Assemblymember James Ramos proudly represents the 40
th
Assembly district which includes Highland, Loma Linda, Mentone, Rancho Cucamonga, Redlands, and San Bernardino.