For Immediate Release
Thursday, December 5, 2019
Contact: Jeovana Sanchez Gonzalez (909) 476-5023
Assemblymember Ramos and Governor Newsom Kick-off Statewide Announcement of $650 Million in Emergency Homelessness Aide
(Loma Linda, CA) –
Assemblymember James C. Ramos
(D-Highland) welcomed Governor Gavin Newsom to the Loma Linda Veterans Village where they announced $650 million in emergency homelessness aide. Monies can be used with local discretion as needed for projects such as the Loma Linda Veterans Village, where supportive services connect homeless veterans to mental health, job, and community resources. While on site, Assemblymember Ramos and Governor Newsom visited with two households in the village to see first-hand how the services are providing pathways to prosperous lives. Of the $650 million, $36 million will go to San Bernardino County.
“We have to keep this about our shared humanity” said
Assemblymember Ramos
. “These resources are working. Because of the supportive housing services one of the households has received, they have gotten back on their feet, secured a job closer to their family, and will be moving in the near future. Now, that unit is available to help the next homeless veteran. This $36 million in emergency homelessness aide will provide much needed relief to San Bernardino County and Assembly District 40.”
Assemblymember Ramos and Governor Newsom answered questions from local press on the issue of homelessness to wrap up the site tour. Discussion centered on the dramatic influx of homeless individuals flooding cities and counties. Touching on Assemblymember Ramos’s shared humanity remark, the Governor concluded that together we can solve homelessness.
At the state level, Assemblymember Ramos hopes to introduce legislation in the upcoming session that supports transitional age homeless youth between the ages of 18 and 26 who are often forgotten.
###
Assemblymember James Ramos proudly represents the 40
th
Assembly district which includes Highland, Loma Linda, Mentone, Rancho Cucamonga, Redlands, and San Bernardino.
PDF File
Assemblymember Ramos and Governor Newsom Kick-off Statewide Announcement of $650 Million in Emergency Homelessness Aide