SACRAMENTO –
Each year, members of the California State Assembly are asked to name an outstanding nonprofit to recognize during a ceremony on the floor of the California State Assembly. This year, Assemblymember Jacqui Irwin (D-Thousand Oaks) selected Ventura County Community Foundation (VCCF) as her Nonprofit of the Year.
“VCCF truly served as a beacon of hope for our community after the Borderline Bar & Grill tragedy and Woolsey/Hill wildfires occurred late last year,” said Assemblymember Irwin. Their service as the mainstay of community response in helping collect thousands of donations to support the victims, individuals, and various entities affected by the tragic events, demonstrated the organization’s vital role in our community.  I am honored to name them as the 2019 Nonprofit of the Year.”
VCCF originated in 1987, focusing on building philanthropy in our region by stewarding legacies through careful management of the charitable capital entrusted to them. The organization specializes in connecting philanthropic resources with community needs for the benefit of all, namely through scholarships, grant making, and collaborative partnerships.
Ventura County Community Foundation administered the entirety of the Conejo Valley Victims Fund, established in conjunction with the City of Thousand Oaks and other entities. The funds were used to assist families who lost loved ones, victims who were physically injured and those inside the Borderline Bar & Grill when the shooting occurred. As of late December, the VCCF had already paid out $310,000 in cash assistance and $500 prepaid Visa cards. Additionally, the organization set up the Hill Fire/Woolsey Fire Sudden and Urgent Needs Effort Fund as a means to collect donations to distribute to those who fell victim to the flames.
“We are deeply humbled that Assemblymember Irwin chose to recognize the Ventura County Community Foundation for this prestigious honor,” said foundation president Vanessa Bechtel. “To be selected among so many incredible nonprofit organizations is a tribute to the tremendous impact that our work has on people’s lives.”
VCCF was honored this afternoon at a ceremony at the State Capitol.