SACRAMENTO –
Every year members of the California State Assembly are asked to name an extraordinary small business to recognize during the California Small Business Day Awards Ceremony in Sacramento. Assemblymember Jacqui Irwin (D-Thousand Oaks) has named Carrara Pastries as her 2019 Small Business of the Year.
“This is an excellent small business because it is their mission to make every day sweeter for anyone who walks through their doors,” said Assemblymember Jacqui Irwin. “This family business truly represents what it means to fulfill the American dream, their connection to the community of Moorpark and their extensive community involvement has been the heart of their success; that is why I’m proud to select them as the 2019 Small Business of the Year.”
The bakery was founded in 2011, owned by TV Celebrity Chef Damiano Carrara and his brother Massimiliano Carrara. Damiano moved to the United States from Lucca, Italy when he was 19 to follow his dream of opening up a pastry shop. The restaurant brings their distinctive take on authentic Italian offerings to the City of Moorpark, selling Italian pastries, coffees, gelato and wine, and serving breakfast, lunch and dinner every day. Their most popular pastry is their frittelle, a cream puff rolled in sugar filled with fresh chantilly cream, which is vanilla custard and whip cream combined together.
“We feel grateful and humbled by this, said Damiano Carrara. “We worked so hard and keep working towards our American dream,” he added.
Carrara Pastries is also known for their work giving back to the community. They often donate both time and delicious food to local non-profit organizations and public service groups. They have donated to fundraisers for the Boys and Girls Club and the Santa Ynez Valley Therapeutic Riding Program, as well as for the Moorpark Food Pantry. Last year, during the wildfires that ravaged our region, they provided food to our local first responders. Additionally, they donated to fundraisers for the victims of the Borderline tragedy. They also hired an intern through PathPoint, a non-profit organization that partners with people with disabilities, mental health diagnoses, and young adults to pursue their hopes and dreams through strengthening workplace abilities, building life skills, and developing meaningful relationships.  She is now an employee of Carrara Pastries.
In October of 2018 they moved to their new 5,000-square foot location in the Tuscany Square retail center, allowing more space for customers to enjoy their delectable offerings. Carrara’s currently employs 54 full and part-time employees.
Carrara Pastries was honored on the Assembly floor at the State Capitol.