Image
(Sacramento, CA) –
Following a historic floor session opened for the first time ever with Native American prayer,
Assemblymember James C. Ramos
(D – Highland) passed Assembly Concurrent Resolution 83 to designate May as the month for awareness for Missing and Murdered Indigenous Women and Girls.
“It is of grand importance that we bring awareness to the epidemic of Missing and Murdered Indigenous Women and Girls. This is a nationwide issue that especially affects California, as we are home to more people of Native American/Alaskan Native heritage than any other state in the country. California is number six on the top ten states with the highest number of such cases. I am so proud that my colleagues joined me to raise awareness on the high rates of homicides of American Indian and Alaska Native women, as well as other forms of violence, including sex trafficking, domestic violence, and sexual assault,” said
Assemblymember Ramos
.
Across the United States and Canada, indigenous women and girls have been kidnapped or murdered at an alarming rate. According to the Department of Justice, Native American/Alaskan Native women living on tribal land are ten times more likely to be murdered than the national average. The true number of missing indigenous women and girls is currently unknown.
ACR 83 was supported by the
Red Earth Women’s Society
, an alliance of indigenous women dedicated to raising awareness on the injustices effecting Native communities. They provided the following statement:
“Coming from one of the states with a large indigenous population, we are glad that we have leadership looking at the issue of Missing and Murdered Indigenous Women in California. This is a national issue that we are not exempt from. This is a national issue that affects us here at home in California. The Red Earth Women's Society would like to thank Assemblymember Ramos for his support on this very important Resolution.  As Native Women, grandmothers, mothers, daughters and sisters, it means so much to us and our community.  This is why we wear Red, in Honorable Memory of our Missing and Murdered Indigenous Women."
Assemblymember James C. Ramos presenting Assembly Continuing Resolution 83 on the Assembly floor.
###
Follow Assemblymember Ramos on social media: Facebook
@AsmJamesRamos
/ Twitter
@AsmJamesRamos
/ Instagram
@asmjamesramos
Assemblymember James Ramos proudly represents the 40
th
Assembly district which includes Highland, Loma Linda, Mentone, Rancho Cucamonga, Redlands, and San Bernardino.