SACRAMENTO
— In a commitment to investing in Green Infrastructure along California’s coastal communities, the State Assembly unanimously approved Assemblywoman Cottie Petrie-Norris’ Assembly Bill 65 (AB 65) on Monday, April 22, 2019. Proposition 68, approved by California voters on June 5, 2018, authorizes $40 million to address coastal adaptation; and AB 65 prioritizes projects that utilize green-natural infrastructure for coastal adaptation. With 67% of Southern California beaches under threat of vanishing by the year 2100, AB 65 is critical in doing all we can to preserve our coastline.
“Our coastline is home to nearly 70% of Californians and a critical engine of our economy,” said Assemblywoman Cottie Petrie-Norris (D-Laguna Beach). “We must move away from armoring our shorelines with gray infrastructure and revert to nature’s best defense—nature itself.”
According to the EPA, green infrastructure is less expensive than conventional gray infrastructure, which can be costly to maintain as it deteriorates. Examples of green infrastructure include: dunes, which reduce flooding and replenish beaches; kelp and seagrass soften wave impact; and marshes reduce flooding and erosion. Natural restoration projects not only protect the coast – they restore ecosystems, improve recreation, and support coastal economies.
What others are saying:
The Nature Conservancy:
“Nature, such as our beaches, wetlands, reefs and parks, offers powerful natural infrastructure that can play a critical role in better protecting communities from climate change impacts, like sea level rise, flooding and extreme heat. Assemblywoman Petrie Norris’ bill, AB 65, will help local communities realize these benefits by providing technical assistance on projects, and guiding funding.” Michelle Passero, Director of The Nature Conservancy’s California Climate Program.
California League of Conservation Voters:
"The threat to our coasts have never been more real. Last June, voters passed Prop 68 to prepare us for the future and get us ready for increase climate impacts. This bill will ensure our vulnerable communities, economies, and natural resources are a priority in Prop 68 implementation.” –Mary Creasman, CEO of CLCV.
Sierra Club:
“Working with nature, and using natural infrastructure to respond to sea level rise is possible and sensible. AB 65 is a significant step toward making that sensible approach part of California’s essential coastal policy.” –Kathryn Phillips, Director of Sierra Club. CA
Coastkeeper Alliance:
“Sea level rise threatens California’s vibrant coastal ecosystems, communities, and economy, and requires immediate action to protect and preserve our coastline. Assembly Bill 65 will provide the resources and strategies that California needs to adapt to rising ocean levels, while providing multiple benefits to both wildlife and the public.”
Azul:
“As a strong supporter of Proposition 68 and the investments it made to assist coastal communities with adapting to the impacts of climate change, Azul is proud to support AB 65 and its effort to encourage natural solutions that provide multiple co-benefits. Azul realizes that the impacts of climate change along the coast are already visible and that there is an immediate need for local communities that rely on marine resources for their livelihoods to thoughtfully adapt to these impacts. Because of this, we appreciate the additional effort that AB 65 promotes in building long term coastal resiliency by prioritizing the use of natural infrastructure solutions. By doing this, this bill ensures that as the state adapts to the impacts of a changing climate, it is utilizing the best options available.”
CA Native Plant Society:
"As an organization committed to the protection of the state's native flora, the California Native Plant Society (CNPS) supports AB 65 and its emphasis on using natural infrastructure in climate adaptation. The use of built infrastructure in mitigating the impacts of climate change, particularly along the coast, has several unintended consequences for nearby ecosystems and on the environment, including on native plant life. In contrast, natural infrastructure, which has been proven to be equally if not more effective than built alternatives, when designed to mimic natural processes and preserve biodiversity can result in alternatives better blend into their surroundings with minimal impacts. CNPS supports AB 65 because it encourages the State Coastal Conservancy to prioritize using natural infrastructure solutions to climate change whenever possible. We believe this is the best way to build long-term coastal climate resiliency.
California Trout:
“CalTrout is thrilled to support AB 65. CalTrout’s State of the Salmonids Report that catalogs all 32 native trout and salmonid species in California identifies climate change as one of the biggest threats to our native fisheries. We are constantly looking for innovative strategies to prepare for this inevitability and to invest in protecting climate resilient natural infrastructure like our volcanic source water areas in Northern California and our dwindling estuary systems along the coasts. By investing in the Green Infrastructure highlighted by Petrie-Norris’s AB 65, we take an important step for preserving California not only for our salmonids, but for all Californians.”
Ocean Conservancy:
“Ocean Conservancy wholeheartedly supports AB 65 Sea-Level Rise: Investing in Green Infrastructure, which is a forward-looking, effective way to prioritize state spending in a way that helps our coastal communities and ecosystems. Green infrastructure, also called natural infrastructure, provides multiple benefits to Californians – it is a cost-effective way to adapt to sea level rise, reduce risks from flooding and storm surge, support our state’s important fisheries and habitats, and provide recreational opportunities and access to green spaces. Prioritizing green infrastructure is a coastal and ocean-smart solution for coastal adaptation, and we are excited to support this legislation.”