FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: April 25, 2019
CONTACT: Taylor Woolfork (916) 319-2048
Assemblywoman Blanca E. Rubio Landmark Legislation to Increase Access to High-Quality Child Care for Infants and Toddlers Passes Second Committee Vote
SACRAMENTO, CA –
Today, Assemblywoman Blanca E. Rubio (D-Baldwin Park) presented Assembly Bill 167, landmark legislation which would greatly increase access to high-quality child care for low-income infants and toddlers in California in front of the Assembly Education Committee.
According to
research
, just 9% of California’s low-income infants and toddlers (0-3 years) who are income-eligible for subsidized child care are enrolled. Fewer families have access to the quality early learning programs with comprehensive support services that research shows has the greatest positive impact on low-income babies.
“As a single mother and former school teacher, taking care of our state’s most vulnerable children is a priority of mine,” said Assemblywoman Rubio. “Ultimately, what matters most to me is how well our early childhood education system is serving our children and families – and quite frankly, the status quo is failing our babies because too few of them have access to high-quality child care.”
“The first three years are critical to a child's development, providing the platform for future health and well-being,” said Scott Moore, CEO of
Kidango
, a Bay Area early education nonprofit sponsoring the bill. “We can't afford to wait until kindergarten or preschool to provide these children with the high-quality early learning programs and support they need. By strengthening and expanding child care programs for our youngest children based on the effective, high-quality Early Head Start model, we can give more children the start to life they deserve, and set the foundation for success throughout school and life.”
AB 167 would strengthen the existing California general child care program for infants and toddlers by providing funding to improve quality standards based on the proven Early Head Start model and expand access to high-quality, full-day, full-year child care and comprehensive support services for infants and toddlers living in high-need communities.
Assemblywoman Rubio represents the 48th Assembly District, which is comprised of the cities of Azusa, Baldwin Park, Bradbury, City of Industry, Covina, Duarte, El Monte, Glendora, Irwindale, Monrovia, West Covina, and the San Gabriel Valley unincorporated areas of Los Angeles County, including Bassett, Charter Oak, Citrus, East Arcadia, Ramona, Valinda and West La Puente.
###