(Rancho Cucamonga, CA) –
Assemblymember James C. Ramos
(D-Highland) is proud to select
Rancho Cucamonga Councilmember Kristine Scott
as “Woman of the Year” for the 40
th
Assembly district. Assemblymember Ramos will honor Councilmember Scott on the Assembly floor as part of the California’s Legislative Women’s Caucus yearly event, as part of Women’s History Month.
“I am pleased to recognize Councilmember Scott for her dedication and commitment to the Inland Empire,” said
Assemblymember Ramos
. “Her outstanding leadership on several business and community organizations should be celebrated and emulated by our future young leaders. I look forward to seeing what she accomplishes on the Rancho Cucamonga City Council.”
Kristine Scott
is the current Councilmember for the Rancho Cucamonga City Council, elected in 2018. She serves on several business and community organizations such as past Chair of Inland Action, Secretary of Boys and Girls Club of Greater Redlands-Riverside, Secretary for The Greater Ontario Business Council, Board Member of the San Bernardino Valley College Foundation, Member of the San Bernardino County Sheriff’s Information Exchange Committee, and on the Advisory Board of 4 Purple Hearts.
Councilmember Scott
is an experienced public affairs manager with the Southern California Gas Company serving as the point of contact for communities in San Bernardino to educate customers and stakeholders about activities, programs and services, responding to customer and local media inquiries and resolving customer complaints.
Councilmember Scott
is a graduate of California State University, Fullerton with a Bachelor’s degree in communications specializing in public relations with a minor in American Studies. She is also an alumnus of California Connections, a statewide, issues-based, learning leadership fellowship through the Southern California Leadership Network and the Inland Empire Economic Partnership Regional Leadership Academy.
“I am grateful for this honor, which comes as quite a surprise. This award motivates me even more to continue the much needed work in our shared region,” said
Councilmember Scott
. “I would like to thank Assemblymember Ramos for this award and for all of his work in bettering our region.”
###
Assemblymember James Ramos proudly represents the 40
th
Assembly district which includes Highland, Loma Linda, Mentone, Rancho Cucamonga, Redlands, and San Bernardino.