Assemblymember Bauer-Kahan and City Leaders gather to announce a brand new accessible play area and other park facilities that will be built because of newly acquired state funding
(
Sacramento, CA
) – Today, Assemblymember Bauer-Kahan (D-Orinda), Lafayette City Council Members, Parks, Trails & Recreation Commissioners, and local parents and playground supporters gathered to kick off the refurbishment of Lafayette’s Brook Street Park. This playground is the only play space available to young children in the downtown area of Lafayette. This refurbishment is possible because Assemblymember Bauer-Kahan and her City partners were successful in securing state funding of $300,000 in this year’s budget to build brand new facilities.
“We are grateful to Assembly Member Bauer-Kahan, and our Parks, Trails & Recreation Commissioners and staff, for working together to find this funding. With it, Lafayette’s Brook Street Park will be a safer and much more fun destination for our children and their families to enjoy,” said Lafayette Mayor Mike Anderson.
This project will provide complete replacement of the dated “pirate ship” play structure, which has come to the end of its useful life.  The new park’s facilities will focus on children younger than five and with special needs. The brand new ADA-friendly playground and park surfacing will feature both traditional swings and a unique "Expression Swing," which has been shown to enhance the social, emotional and cognitive well-being of children and adults. The playground plan also includes a new spinning gravity seat, additional safety fencing and more picnic tables for park-goers.
“Securing much-needed, accessible and modern outdoor space for recreation for our community’s children of all abilities is a priority for me,” said Bauer-Kahan. “I am delighted that the Governor saw fit to include this worthy project in this year’s state budget. I am thrilled that my office, the City, and the Parks, Trails & Recreation Commissioners were able to forge such a successful partnership,” Bauer-Kahan concluded.
The City anticipates breaking ground on the new park in spring, 2020.