Image
(Sacramento, CA) –
Today,
Assemblymember James C. Ramos
(D-Highland) honored
Family Assistance Program
as Non-Profit of the Year during a special event in the Capitol.
“It is a privilege to recognize the hard work that Family Assistance Program does year after year. They have been instrumental in getting families back on their feet when they had nowhere to turn. I applaud their flexibility to accommodate the changing needs in the Inland Empire,” said
Assemblymember Ramos
.
For over 30 years
, Family Assistance Program
has been helping build stronger families in the San Bernardino County community. The agency currently operates six human services programs designed to empower homeless youth, victims of human trafficking, victims of domestic violence, and women on probation. With multiple facilities located throughout the High Desert, Inland Empire, and Morongo Basin, the agency provides a safe and supportive place to over 2,400 people a year. These facilities consist of two emergency shelters, two community centers, three youth centers, and dozens of transitional housing units. Services provided include 24-hour crisis hotlines, shelter, case management, life skills education, counseling, legal advocacy, rental assistance, health care, and transportation. The overarching goal of all programs and services is to provide participants with the tools necessary for healthy interpersonal relationships, economic empowerment, and safe stable housing.
“On behalf of the entire team at Family Assistance Program, it is a great honor to accept this award as Non-Profit of the Year. Over the years our organization has grown and adapted to best serve the Inland Empire. We do this work because we love helping people, and hope to make our community a better place. Thank you Assemblymember Ramos,” said
Darryl Evey, CEO of Family Assistance Program.
###
For Immediate Release
Wednesday, June 5, 2019
Contact: Brendan Wiles (909) 476-5023
Follow Assemblymember Ramos on social media: Facebook
@AsmJamesRamos
/ Twitter
@AsmJamesRamos
/ Instagram
@asmjamesramos
Assemblymember James Ramos proudly represents the 40
th
Assembly district which includes Highland, Loma Linda, Mentone, Rancho Cucamonga, Redlands, and San Bernardino.