(Sacramento, CA)
– Two bills authored by
Assemblymember James C. Ramos
(D-Highland), AB 1601 which strengthens the Office of Emergency Services (OES) to provide behavioral health services during times of crisis, and AB 529 which prohibits mandatory overtime for any psychiatric technician or assistant working in state facilities, have passed their first committees.
“Having seen firsthand the devastating effects of the December 2, 2015 attack in San Bernardino, I know that unexpected tragedies can have an immediate major impact on the local community. I’m proud to author AB 1601 to create a new role within OES that ensures individuals affected by these events receive the trauma-related support they need,” said
Assemblymember Ramos
. “Similarly, AB 529 will protect patients in our state facilities by prohibiting psychiatric technicians and assistants from working mandatory overtime shifts, which can lead to significantly higher error rates.”
AB 1601, sponsored by
The Steinberg Institute
, will establish the position of a behavioral health deputy director at OES and require that deputy director to collaborate with the Department of Health Care Services (DHCS) to coordinate the delivery of mental health care in the event of a declared state of emergency.
AB 1601 passed Assembly Governmental Organization Committee and will proceed to the Assembly Health Committee.
AB 529, sponsored by the
California Association of Psychiatric Technicians
, will end the practice of mandatory overtime for psychiatric technicians and psychiatric technician assistants that work in any state hospital, prison, or developmental center. Doing so will strengthen employee safety and ensure patients receive proper care and attention. Exceptions would be made for extraordinary circumstances that require increased staffing levels. AB 529 also includes a provision to establish a scheduling tool for management to meet staffing needs avoid overtime.
AB 529 passed the Assembly Public Employee and Retirement Committee and will proceed to the Assembly Appropriations Committee.
###
For Immediate Release
Wednesday, April 3, 2019
Contact: Brendan Wiles (909) 476-5023
Follow Assemblymember Ramos on social media: Facebook
@AsmJamesRamos
/ Twitter
@AsmJamesRamos
/ Instagram
@asmjamesramos
Assemblymember James Ramos proudly represents the 40
th
Assembly district which includes Highland, Loma Linda, Mentone, Rancho Cucamonga, Redlands, and San Bernardino.