(Sacramento, CA) –
As the first California Native American elected to the State Legislature,
Assemblymember James C. Ramos
(D-Highland) has been appointed Chair of the Select Committee on Native American Affairs by
Speaker of the Assembly Anthony Rendon
(D-Lakewood). Assemblymember Ramos’s appointment marks the formation of this committee.
Assemblymember Ramos
, who previously served as Chairman of the San Manuel Mission Band of Indians, sought to create the Select Committee to identify opportunities to strengthen ongoing working relationships with tribes throughout the state. The scope of the Select Committee will focus on critical issues facing Native American communities – cultural preservation, domestic violence, youth suicide, opioid abuse, missing Native American women, mental health, and education attainment. The work plan to carry out this scope will consist of information hearings and roundtable meetings in the 40
th
Assembly district and other member districts, fact finding tours, committee white papers, and potential legislation.
“As Speaker of the Assembly, I am grateful for the background, experience, and dedication that Assemblymember Ramos brings to the Democratic Caucus,” said
Speaker Rendon
. “I admire his dedication to the Inland Empire and his efforts to advance the discussion on Native American cultural preservation. I am proud to appoint Assemblymember Ramos to Chair the Select Committee on Native American Affairs.”
“It is a great honor to represent the Inland Empire as the first California Native American elected to the State Legislature,” said
Assemblymember Ramos
. “I never thought as a child, growing up in a trailer on the San Manuel Indian Reservation, that I would one day have the privilege to serve in the Assembly and to be the Chair of the Select Committee on Native American Affairs. I am thrilled to lead the Select Committee on issues affecting the Native American community and hope to be a voice for all native peoples in California.”
###
Assemblymember James Ramos proudly represents the 40
th
Assembly district which includes Highland, Loma Linda, Mentone, Rancho Cucamonga, Redlands, and San Bernardino.
For Immediate Release
Friday, February 22, 2019
Contact: Brendan Wiles (909) 476-5023