SACRAMENTO – As Chair of the Accountability & Administrative Review, Assemblywoman Cottie Petrie-Norris is holding oversight hearings to ensure that taxpayer dollars are spent effectively. On August 21st, the Assemblywoman will convene an oversight hearing with the Assembly Health Committee to examine the effective use of funding from the Mental Health Services Act, also known as Prop 63.
California is confronting a pressing mental health crisis, “At the state level, we spend $10 billion annually on mental health programs and services—yet, the crisis continues to worsen,” said
Assemblywoman Cottie Petrie-Norris
. “The status quo cannot continue and we must ensure that state funding is being directed to programs that work.”
In preparation for the August 21st hearing, Chair of the Assembly Health Committee
Assemblymember Jim Wood
commented, “The provision of mental health services is a critical component in addressing many of the challenges we face as a state including housing, homelessness and substance use disorder. We must ensure that Prop 63 funds are spent in the most impactful way through effective fiscal and programmatic monitoring which requires collaboration among counties, the Commission and the state. I have long believed that we cannot effectively address homelessness by simply providing shelter; we have to provide critical wraparound services, such as mental health services, to ensure an individual’s stability and future success.”
Assemblywoman Petrie-Norris has already held three oversight hearings in 2019. These hearings have covered top constituents issues including,
DMV wait times
and
FI$Cal
.  Just last week, the Accountability Committee along with the Assembly Business and Professions Committee reviewed
Professional Licensing, Technology and the Business Modernization Plan
with the Department of Consumer Affairs.
Wednesday, August 21, 2019
Assembly Accountability and Administrative Review Committee & Assembly Health Committee: Mental Health Services Act (Prop 63) Funds—Oversight and Accountability
10:00 a.m.
State Capitol, Room 447