SACRAMENTO – As Chair of the Accountability & Administrative Review, Assemblywoman Cottie Petrie-Norris is working to better understand issues facing Californians in order focus the Committee’s oversight efforts.
"As Chair of the Assembly’s Accountability and Administrative Review Committee, I am committed to ensuring that taxpayer dollars are spent efficiently and effectively," said
Assemblywoman Cottie Petrie-Norris
. "These oversight hearings are a critical opportunity for my Committee to study the implementation, operation and effectiveness of state programs and agencies."
In preparation for the August 14 hearing,
Assemblymember Evan Low
said, “California consumers are served best when our professional licensing laws balance regulatory efficiency with public protection. As Chair of the Business and Professions Committee, I am pleased to partner with Asm. Petrie-Norris as we continue our work on behalf of the people.”
Assemblywoman Petrie-Norris has already held two oversight hearings in 2019. The Accountability Committee along with the Assembly Budget Subcommittee 6 on Budget Process Oversight and Program Evaluation, and the Assembly Transportation Committee held a joint
oversight hearing in April on DMV wait times
and the department’s plans to improve customer service. Additionally, the Accountability Committee with Assembly Budget Subcommittee 6 held a joint
oversight hearing in June on FI$Cal
(video), the state’s accounting, budget, cash management, and procurement information technology system.
In addition to these hearings, the Accountability Committee plans to focus future hearings on issues identified in correspondence with constituents and the Assemblywoman’s goals of keeping state government accountable and fiscally sound. Oversight hearing topics and dates will include an update on professional licensing on August 14, 2019, and state mental health funding oversight on August 21, 2019.
UPCOMING OVERSIGHT HEARINGS
Wednesday, August 14, 2019
Assembly Accountability and Administrative Review Committee & Assembly Business and Professions Committee: Department of Consumer Affairs: Update on Professional Licensing, Technology, and the Business Modernization Plan
9:30 a.m.
State Capitol, Room 437
Wednesday, August 21, 2019
Assembly Accountability and Administrative Review Committee & Assembly Health Committee: Mental Health Services Act (Prop 63) Funds—Oversight and Accountability
10:00 a.m.
State Capitol, Room 447