SACRAMENTO
– Assemblywoman Petrie-Norris (D-Laguna Beach) is authoring Assembly Bill 1128 which will help more seniors remain in their homes and in our communities, by streamlining the licensing for the Program of All-Inclusive Care for the Elderly (PACE) facilities. Today, AB 1128 passed on a bipartisan vote in the Senate Health Committee.
Assemblywoman Petrie-Norris
said, “PACE is a well-respected, efficient program that aims to keep seniors in their homes and communities, not in institutions.  AB 1128 will facilitate statewide growth of PACE programs, enabling more seniors to access these services and age in place. This also reduces state-associated costs with nursing home care. This is a win-win for everyone involved.
Dr. Len Fromer, with Turner Impact Capital
testified in committee saying, “AB 1128 will benefit thousands of elderly Californians by accelerating and streamlining the growth of PACE programs that provide vital care within their communities. By improving access and cutting red tape, this common-sense measure will help ensure that our frail seniors receive the services they need.”
CalPACE CEO Peter Hansel
also provided testimony in committee, “PACE is a proven model of providing care to the frail elderly and allow them to live in the community. AB 1128 will ensure that PACE will continue to expand in a timely manner in California and serve more frail elderly Californians.”
PACE is designed to provide care for California’s frail population as an alternative to institutionalized care. PACE programs coordinate and deliver preventative and long-term care services to the elderly who would otherwise be in nursing homes, so they can continue to live and thrive in their communities.
PACE is the only provider-based model of care where a single entity is entirely responsible for the delivery, outcomes, and cost of care. Eligible beneficiaries must be 55 years or older and state certified to qualify for nursing home care. Program recipients receive all of their services through a one-stop-shop PACE center, while still residing in their community, which is shown to improve. There are currently 12 PACE programs providing essential care to 8,000 seniors operating in 42 sites across the state.
Assembly Bill 1128 will consolidate licensure functions of PACE within the Department of Health Care Services and streamline approvals for new PACE start-ups and expansions.