(SACRAMENTO)
– Assemblymember Robert Rivas (D-Hollister) issued the following statement after Governor Gavin Newsom released his May budget revision:
“The Governor continues to strike a smart balance, advancing a bold, progressive agenda, while keeping the state’s fiscal house in order. We must take action to give more people access to the California Dream and to ensure the state can continue to make that dream accessible in good economic times and in bad. This budget takes important steps to ensure that is a reality.”
“I applaud the Governor for his push to address the state’s housing crisis – including $1 billion to fight homelessness and maintaining his $1.75 billion commitment to increase housing production. I will join the Governor and continue to fight to ensure state efforts provide more housing for all Californians, including our rural communities.”
“The budget revise also provides support for early learning by increasing access to child care, universal preschool and full-day kindergarten, while also making important augmentations for trauma and developmental screenings, home visiting programs and paid family leave.”
“I’m pleased to see the Governor’s commitment to address the shortage of qualified teachers by including $89.8 million for teacher service credit scholarships. This funding is well aligned with my Assembly Bill 1623 to create the Golden State Teacher Grant Program and the accompanying budget request I submitted to increase the number of teachers fully prepared in subject shortage areas.”
“And to ensure the state is preparing for good economic times and bad, the budget includes $15 billion to build budget resiliency and pay down unfunded liabilities. This includes $4.5 billion to eliminate budgetary debts and reverse deferrals, $5.7 billion to build reserves, and $4.8 billion to pay down unfunded retirement liabilities.”
“I look forward to continuing to work with the Governor and my legislative colleagues to ensure we pass a budget that continues to give more people access to the California Dream.”
###