(Sacramento)
– This morning, Assemblymember Cecilia Aguiar-Curry (D – Winters), held a press conference and rally in support of her bill, ACA 1. She was joined by coauthoring legislators and advocates for local governments, housing, labor, public safety, transportation, and conservation.  (ACA 1 will be heard in the Assembly Local Government Committee this afternoon at 1:30pm in room 447 of the State Capitol.)
ACA 1 would reduce the local vote threshold for approval of bond and special tax measures from a two-thirds vote to a 55 percent supermajority. This is the same vote threshold that currently applies to all local school construction bond measures. By making this change, ACA 1 puts housing and infrastructure projects on par with school proposals, so that cities, counties, and special districts have a practical financing tool to address community needs.
The bill is sponsored by the California State Building Trades, California Professional Firefighters, and Housing California, along with many other supporters. Speakers at the event included: Cesar Diaz, Legislative and Political Director for the California State Building Trades; Brian Rice, President of the California Professional Firefighters, and Carolyn Coleman, Executive Director of the League of California Cities.
The Housing Committee Chairs from each Chamber, Senator Scott Wiener and Assemblymember David Chiu, have joined as Principal Coauthors to ACA 1. Other members of the Legislature who have coauthored are: Senators Jim Beall, Jerry Hill, and Nancy Skinner, Assemblymembers Marc Berman, Richard Bloom, Rob Bonta, Autumn Burke, Jim Cooper, Tom Daly, Susan Talamantes Eggman, Jim Frazier, Eduardo Garcia, Mike Gipson, Todd Gloria, Lorena Gonzalez, Timothy Grayson, Chris Holden, Reginald Jones-Sawyer, Ash Kalra, Marc Levine, Evan Low, Kevin McCarty, Kevin Mullin, Adrin Nazarian, Bill Quirk, Luz Rivas, Robert Rivas, Blanca Rubio, Miguel Santiago, Mark Stone, Philip Ting, Shirley Weber, Buffy Wicks, and Jim Wood.
###