SACRAMENTO
– Every year, the California Legislative Women’s Caucus sponsors the annual “Woman of the Year” celebration as part of Women’s History Month.  This year, Assemblymember Jacqui Irwin (D-Thousand Oaks) named Monique Garcia as her 2019 Woman of the Year.
“This is one of my favorite events every year because we honor powerful women that are pillars of our community,” said Assemblymember Jacqui Irwin. “This year is no different; Monique Garcia’s life-long dedication to Nyeland Acres and the County of Ventura is admirable. That’s why I’m proud to honor her as the 2019 Woman of the Year.”
As a life-long Oxnard resident, Monique Garcia was taught by her mother and father to respect hard work and give back to her community. Monique’s own background in an underserved neighborhood compelled her to share her experience in order to ensure that young men and women reach their highest potential. In pursuing this mission, she has served as the Unit Director for the Nyeland Acres Boys and Girls Club for the last eight years.
“When I was just a little girl I knew a positive life was not going to be handed to me.  I knew I had to work hard every single day to be the fearless and fierce woman who stands before you today,” said Monique Garcia. “Accepting this award is an honor. I have many little hearts that look up to me and I can only work harder, and build a stronger foundation as a woman in my community who beat the odds of a hopeless life.”
Monique attended Rio Mesa High School, where she played varsity basketball, and was once named the Southern California Athlete of the Year. After high school, she attended Oxnard College and Cal State University Channel Islands. Monique is currently pursuing her Master’s Degree in Biblical Theology from the Endtime Ministries International Bible University.
She also serves as a member of the County of Ventura Behavioral Health Advisory Board and as a member of the Transitional Aged Youth (TAY) Committee. In her free time, she volunteers with Potter’s Hand Ministries, Heart for the Community, and enjoys spending time with her family and friends.