Torrance, CA
– Assemblymember Al Muratsuchi (D-Torrance)’s Assembly Bill 720, which would ensure California Community Colleges’ training programs for firefighters and law enforcement officers are fully funded, passed the Assembly Floor.  Under the current funding formula, these kinds of programs will receive less funding from the state and, as a result, may not cover the cost of instruction for colleges that offer continuing education, certified POST training, or additional coursework required for public safety officers in California.
“I have always been a supporter of education. These community college training programs for our first responders should be our top priority in funding.  This measure is a common sense fix to ensure that firefighters and law enforcement officers are given the highest quality training to protect the public and do their jobs,” said Assemblymember Muratsuchi.
Traditionally, these partnerships have been built on apportionment revenue sharing agreements, or Instructional Services Agreements (ISAs), between the college and its public safety partners. Colleges like El Camino College collaborate with local police and firefighters to offer training under the California Community College’s apportionment funding model. In the past, 100 percent of the funds received from the state for these training programs came from Full Time Equivalent Student (FTES) apportionment. However, under the new funding formula over the next three years, colleges will receive less funding from the state.  This bill will require that these ISAs, such as El Camino Colleges, are funded outside the new funding formula.
Assemblymember Al Muratsuchi, the Assistant Majority Leader for Policy and Research,  represents California’s 66
th
Assembly District, which includes El Camino Village, Gardena, Harbor City, Harbor Gateway, Hermosa Beach, Lomita, Los Angeles, Manhattan Beach, Palos Verdes Estates, Rancho Palos Verdes, Redondo Beach, Rolling Hills, Rolling Hills Estates, Torrance, and West Carson.  Muratsuchi is the Chair of the Assembly Select Committee on Aerospace, and is a member of the Assembly Committees on Budget, Budget Subcommittee on Education Finance, Environmental Safety and Toxic Materials, Natural Resources, Utilities and Energy, and Veterans Affairs.
CONTACT:
Kerry Jacob, kerry.jacob@asm.ca.gov