SACRAMENTO
– Undeterred by attacks from anti-choice activists, the Assembly Education Committee voted last night to approve Assembly Bill (AB) 624. The bill, authored by Assemblymember Jesse Gabriel (D – San Fernando Valley), would require schools serving grades 7-12, as well as institutions of higher education, to include the phone numbers for sexual assault, domestic violence, and reproductive healthcare hotlines on student ID cards.  AB 624 builds on SB 972, signed into law by Governor Brown in 2018, which requires that schools provide the National Suicide Prevention Lifeline on student ID cards.
After the Committee vote, Assemblymember Gabriel made the following remarks:
“I appreciate my colleagues recognizing the importance of ensuring that these critical resources are available to our students. This legislation will help ensure that students—especially those facing a challenging situation involving domestic violence, sexual assault, or sexual health—are able to access timely and accurate information that may be essential to their physical or mental health.”
"CALCASA is proud to support Assembly Bill 624, which will bring us one step closer to connecting all students in California with the resources they need to live healthy lives free from violence. These hotlines provide the best way to prevent further abuse and make sure students, especially survivors, have access to all the information they need," said Sandra Henriquez, CEO, California Coalition Against Sexual Assault.
During the hearing, the bill was amended to provide private schools grades 7-12 the option to edit or remove the sexual and reproductive health informational hotline.
###
Jesse Gabriel serves in the Assembly Leadership as Assistant Majority Whip. He represents the 45th Assembly District, which includes much of the west San Fernando Valley. Assemblymember Gabriel currently serves on the Committees on Appropriations, Banking and Finance, Higher Education, Housing and Community Development, and Privacy and Consumer Protection.