10 Veterans Honorees Were Selected
By a Panel of 5 Veterans, All from the 40
th
District
(San Bernardino, CA) –
In recognition of Veterans Day Monday, November 11, 2019
Assemblymember James C. Ramos
(D-Highland) hosted and honored 10 outstanding veterans who were selected for their service by a panel of five veterans at his first inaugural “Veterans Honoring Veterans” Ceremony.
“I wanted to give our local veterans the opportunity to thank and commend the service men and women in our community who are making an impact. When we put into perspective the sacrifices that our service members have made, our veterans deserve to be honored 365 days out of the year,” said
Assemblymember Ramos
.
The 2019 Veteran Honorees and their branch of service include:
Bob Ainsworth – United States Army
Charlotte Baber – United States Air Force
Alton Garret – United States Air Force
Sam Irwin – United States Air Force
Gary Lemos – United States Marine Corps
Gregory Lincoln – United States Marine Corps
Joseph Moseley – United States Army
Anthony Precie – United States Navy
Gabriel Sachwitz – United States Marine Corps
Phyllis J. Seleska – United States Navy
The 40
th
Assembly District Veterans Panel and their branch of service include:
Jeff Breiten – United States Marine Corps
Joe Mays – United States Air Force
Richard Valdez – United States Marines
Celeste Williams – United States Army
Chris Williams – United States Navy
Veteran panelists introduced their selected honorees and
Assemblymember Ramos
presented them with a certificate of recognition and an inscribed commemorative mug. All the veterans who participated in this ceremony reside within the 40
th
Assembly District.
A highlights video of the event will be posted on
Assemblymember Ramos’s
website and social media accounts later in the month.
###
For Immediate Release
Wednesday, November 13, 2019
Contact: Brendan Wiles (909) 476-5023
Follow Assemblymember Ramos on social media: Facebook
@AsmJamesRamos
/ Twitter
@AsmJamesRamos
/ Instagram
@asmjamesramos
Assemblymember James Ramos proudly represents the 40
th
Assembly district which includes Highland, Loma Linda, Mentone, Rancho Cucamonga, Redlands, and San Bernardino.
Assemblymember James Ramos secured $16 million in state funding for the 40th Assembly District in the 2019-2020 State Budget.
Click here to read more.