Beall and Kalra Want Downtown Property to Go to San José State University
SACRAMENTO – Today, California’s Department of General Services posted a list of office buildings that it recommends selling or transferring for other uses. Assemblymember Ash Kalra (D-San Jose) and Senator Jim Beall (D-San Jose) celebrated the state’s recommend relinquishing control over the Aflred E. Alquist building in downtown San Jose. They believe the property, situated adjacent to San José State University, would be better utilized by the campus as additional housing and classroom space. Assemblymember Kalra and Senator Beall have requested $250,000 from the State’s general fund to begin planning a mixed-use housing project on the current site of the Alquist building.
“Redeveloping the Alquist building for a multi-use housing and campus facility would help address SJSU’s growing need for campus community housing and expand the campus facilities,” said Assemblymember Kalra. “The Alquist building has great potential to enhance the connection between San José State and the downtown esplanade. I am excited to work with Senator Beall in helping SJSU with the process of redeveloping an underused facility that will bring great value to the university and the City of San Jose.”
“Downtown San Jose is in the midst of a renaissance and SJSU is part of that rebirth. As SJSU continues to grow and thrive, the University needs adequate facilities to meet the demand. For instance, faculty, staff and students desperately need affordable housing options in Silicon Valley,” said Senator Beall. “The current building is no longer appropriate for state service providers and those offices could better serve constituents, especially those with special needs, in another location.”
As development throughout downtown San Jose continues, this project could add to the redevelopment of the Paseo area. With the acquisition of the Alquist building, San José State University will also gain a valuable piece of real estate in a vital pedestrian corridor in downtown San Jose.
“We are thrilled to support the efforts of Assemblymember Kalra, Senator Beall, San José State University to not only add much-needed housing downtown for faculty and staff, but also to revitalize and activate the Paseo,” said Mayor Sam Liccardo.
San José State University is proactively addressing affordable housing options. With soaring rental costs in the region only expected to rise, creating new housing opportunities is a top-priority for San Jose leaders. The Alquist building was recommended for surplus by the Department of General Services. This provides a rare opportunity for the university to offer a proposal for transforming the property. If the state moves forward with allowing San José State University to use the property, the state’s resources will be put to offering solutions to alleviate housing issues and revitalizing the downtown Paseo area.
###