IRVINE
– Every year the California Association of Nonprofits asks legislators to select one incredible organization to recognize at a ceremony in the Capitol. With the pandemic moving  the awards online, it presented an opportunity to recognize the work of six amazing non-profits, one from each of the cities in the 74th Assembly District.
“When we put out a call for nominations for ‘Non-profit of the Year’ I was blown away when we received more than 70 submissions,” said
Assemblywoman Cottie Petrie-Norris (D-Laguna Beach
). “The work of these six non-profits has been invaluable for our communities, especially this year during the COIVD-19 pandemic. These non-profit staff and volunteers have provided outstanding service and demonstrated exceptional leadership, and it is my honor to highlight these organizations for the public.”
Awardees:
Families Forward
of Irvine
Trellis
of Costa Mesa
Robyne’s Nest
of Huntington Beach
Laguna Food Pantry
of Laguna Beach
Foundation of Laguna Woods Village
of Laguna Woods
CureDuchenne
of Newport Beach
“We are thrilled to be selected by Assemblywoman Cottie Petrie-Norris as the 2020 Nonprofit of the Year for Assembly District 74,” said
Families Forward
CEO Madelynn Hirneise
. “Families Forward has served nearly 10,000 families in Orange County through food and diaper assistance and provided 96 families with housing since the COVID-19 outbreak began and we know there are many challenges yet to come. As we look toward an uncertain future, Families Forward will continue to provide a beacon of hope to families at risk of homelessness in our community.”
Gary Cohn, President of Families Forward
added, “On behalf of the Board of Directors I am honored to learn that Families Forward was selected as 2020 Nonprofit of the Year for Assembly District 74. I am proud to be connected to an organization that was prepared to meet this crisis head-on and has continued to provide services without interruption to families in need throughout Orange County. This is a time of critical need and Families Forward is committed to providing assistance to vulnerable families in our community.”
Mark VanDruff, Chairman of the Trellis Board
said, “We love working with businesses, churches, and the concerned citizens who want to help their city solve its problems one-by-one. Being acknowledged for including many of those normally confined to the sidelines find their place in some of the solutions for our city, is not only evidence our mission is truly making a difference – but a huge boost in confirming it’s fulfillment for all involved!”
"We are thrilled that our work and vision is being recognized and honored today," said
Robyne Wood, Founder and Executive Director of Robyne’s Nest
.  "Our team of volunteers at Robyne's Nest work hard to make sure students are given what they need to erase barriers and burdens while in high school and college.”
"We are thrilled that Assemblywoman Cottie Petrie-Norris selected Laguna Food Pantry as the 2020 Nonprofit of the Year for the City of Laguna Beach,” said
Anna Belyea, Executive Director of the Laguna Food Pantry.
“While food insecurity has always been a struggle for many in our community, this unprecedented time of COVID-19 has made the need for healthy, sustainable food of paramount significance. The demand will continue, and Laguna Food Pantry is prepared to serve anyone in need.  We are thankful to Assemblywoman Cottie and the rest of our community for this honor and recognizing the need as we work together to relieve food insecurity."
"We are honored to be selected by Assemblywoman Cottie Petrie-Norris as the 2020 Nonprofit of the Year for Newport Beach,” said
CureDuchenne Founder and CEO Debra Miller
. “Since 2003, CureDuchenne has worked to serve the entire Duchenne community with a focus on finding and funding a cure for Duchenne muscular dystrophy.  Our innovative venture philanthropy model enables us to fund groundbreaking research and promote early diagnosis while offering valuable education and raising awareness."
T
he town hall will be held on
Tuesday, October 3rd at 4:00 PM
and will be available for replay via
www.facebook.com/assemblywomanCPN/live
.