(SACRAMENTO, CA)
- Assemblymember Robert Rivas (D-Hollister) released the following statement in response to Governor Gavin Newsom’s State of the State Address on homelessness and housing:
“Reminding the legislature that ‘The California Dream is for all,’ I commend Governor Newsom’s commitment to addressing California’s crippling homelessness and housing crisis. We must ensure that all residents of our state are able to afford housing and not suffer the harsh realities of becoming homeless. I agree with the Governor, that every Californian currently experiencing homelessness is a casualty of institutional failure,” said Assemblymember Robert Rivas. “As a member of the California Legislature, finding solutions to this crisis is my top priority and I’m committed to working with all stakeholders to tackle this pressing issue.”
Assemblymember Rivas continued, “As Governor Newsom stated, it’s going to take comprehensive and innovative approaches to successfully address our housing and homelessness crisis. Multi-faceted issues require multi-faceted solutions. By pursuing innovative policies like hotel-motel conversions, utilizing unoccupied housing, providing rent subsidies and building more units that the Governor referenced, we can make progress as a state.
“Our continued response to this crisis must reflect our dedication to building a California that works for all people. I agree with the Governor, that we should be measuring the success of our policies, while holding all stakeholders accountable. I am confident that by establishing accountability and focusing housing solutions as it relates to affordability, innovation and equity, California will be stronger and more resilient than ever. I look forward to working with my colleagues and Governor Newsom to solve this problem,” concluded Assemblymember Rivas.
###
Assemblymember Robert Rivas (D-Hollister) represents California’s 30th Assembly District, which includes all or portions of the cities and towns of Aromas, Big Sur, Chualar, Gilroy, Greenfield, Gonzales, Hollister, King City, Morgan Hill, Salinas, San Martin, San Juan Bautista, Soledad, Spreckels, and Watsonville.