SAN JOSE, Calif. – Assemblymember Ash Kalra (D-San Jose) today announced a safety supplies donation drive in response to the countywide shortage of protective equipment for medical workers to protect them against COVID-19.
“Today I am calling on all members of the public, companies, organizations and others to donate needed medical supplies to the Valley Medical Center Foundation,” said Assemblymember Kalra. “As our first responders, doctors, and nurses risk their safety during the Coronavirus outbreak, they are now lacking the basic tools to do their jobs right, and to do them safely.”
“I understand the desire for the public to hold on to many of these items, however, our frontline medical staff need them more than we do,” he added. “If you or anyone you know happens to have a surplus of supplies, please consider donating these items. Together, we can do our part to make a difference and protect these unsung heroes who are keeping our communities safe.”
Donations can be made to the Valley Medical Center Foundation, which is coordinating public donations of needed medical supplies:
The Valley Medical Center Foundation is located at 400 Clove Drive in San Jose—located on the campus of the Santa Clara County Valley Medical Center
Donations are accepted between 8 a.m. and 5 p.m. daily
Specifically, local medical staff need the following new supplies: masks, hand sanitizer, protective goggles and face shields, disinfectant wipes, infrared thermometers, shoe covers, hair covers, and surgical caps. For a complete list of items, please visit
https://vmcfoundation.org
Anyone can show up and drop off supplies, which will be put to immediate use by frontline medical staff
As of March 19, there are a total of 1,006 positive cases and 19 deaths in California, not including passengers from the Grand Princess cruise ship currently docked in Oakland—24 cases of which are from repatriation flights. Additionally, more than 11,700 Californians are self-monitoring based on possible exposure to the disease. Officials expect these numbers to increase.
While there are many types of human coronaviruses, Coronavirus disease 2019, or COVID-19, is a new disease, caused by a novel (or new) coronavirus that has not previously been seen in humans. Its recent outbreak has now spread globally and the most common symptoms include fever, cough, and respiratory symptoms.  According to the World Health Organization (WHO), the number of confirmed COVID-19 cases has now surpassed 210,000 worldwide.
###