SACRAMENTO, CA
— Today, Governor Gavin Newsom signed into law AB 2617, a measure that will fill the vacuum created by federal inaction on gun violence by ensuring that California honors and enforces gun violence restraining orders (GVROs) issued in other states. AB 2617 is authored by Assemblymember Jesse Gabriel (D-Woodland Hills), who co-founded the Legislature’s Gun Violence Prevention Working Group, and who has called for broader state-level cooperation on issues related to gun violence.
“With the federal government failing to provide any national strategy or leadership, California must take a broader view and do more to address threats of gun violence that originate beyond our borders,” said Assemblymember Jesse Gabriel. “Last year’s mass shooting at the Gilroy Garlic Festival was a tragic reminder that guns and gun violence too often cross state lines and that stronger action is needed to protect our communities. I applaud Governor Newsom for signing this important legislation, which will help to prevent dangerous individuals who have been deemed an imminent threat to themselves or others from obtaining firearms in the State of California.”
A GVRO is a judicial order that allows law enforcement to temporarily confiscate firearms from individuals who pose an imminent risk of harm to themselves or others. When used to their full potential, GVROs have proven to be a powerful tool that can prevent mass shootings and suicides and save lives. Laws providing for GVROs, which are sometimes referred to as “red flag laws” or “extreme risk protection orders,” have been enacted in numerous other states.
Gun Violence Prevention Leaders React to the Signing of AB 2617
Samantha Dorf, California Chapter Co-Lead for Moms Demand Action for Gun Sense in America
—
“We commend Assemblymember Gabriel’s efforts to keep our children and families safe. Moms Demand Action is proud to support AB 2617 and excited to see this bill implemented. It will ensure that California continues to lead the nation in gun violence and be the model the rest of the nation should follow. This bill is a practical step to prevent potential tragedies from crossing state borders.”
Ari Freilich, State Policy Director for the Giffords Law Center
—
“In 2014, California led the nation and enacted the first Gun Violence Restraining Order law. Six years later, nearly 20 states have similarly empowered courts to take proactive, evidence-based steps to prevent shootings before they occur. AB 2617 will help ensure that people who have been found to present a clear risk of violence by courts in those states cannot simply cross state lines and acquire deadly weapons in California. We thank Assemblymember Gabriel for continuing to help lead the fight in the Legislature to make California safer for all of us.”
Alex Griffin Walker, Northern California Political Director for March For Our Lives (MFOL) —
“Every day in America, more than 100 lives are taken by the deadly epidemic of gun violence and young people are being disproportionately affected. Suicides are the second leading cause of death among preteens to young adults. Thousands of deaths could have possibly been prevented with the right procedures in place. California has led the nation in gun violence prevention, and by continuing to strengthen our GVRO laws, this bill will help save lives. March for our Lives is proud to support Assemblymember Gabriel’s bill to ensure the safety of our families and communities.”