COVID-19 Update & Resources
Friends,
In these challenging times, our office is here to serve you however we can.
We know that COVID-19 is affecting many in unprecedented ways, and we are grateful to our medical personnel, first responders, those working in grocery stores and other essential jobs, and everyone who is helping to save lives by practicing social distancing and following state and local guidelines. Below are some updates, helpful links, and important information:
The California Legislature has authorized up to $1 billion to increase hospital capacity, purchase additional ventilators and essential medical equipment, and provide assistance to nursing homes, schools, childcare facilities, at-risk seniors, and individuals experiencing homelessness.
Governor Newsom has issued an executive order authorizing local governments to halt evictions, slow foreclosures, and protect against utility shutoffs for Californians affected by COVID-19.
If you can't work, are facing reduced hours, or are caring for a sick or quarantined family member, you may qualify for state assistance. You also may qualify for state assistance if COVID-19 is affecting your business. More information is available
here
.
You can also find information about paid sick leave, paid family leave, unemployment benefits, and other state benefits
here
.
The U.S. Small Business Administration (SBA) is offering low-interest loans for small businesses and nonprofits harmed by COVID-19. More information is available
here
.
Governor Newsom has projected that California schools are likely to remain closed for several months. Educational resources and information about LAUSD Grab & Go Food Centers (which are distributing free meals to students) can be found
here
.
The Department of Motor Vehicles (DMV) is encouraging seniors and vulnerable individuals to avoid DMV offices and has asked police not to ticket for expired drivers licenses or vehicle registrations.
Every Californian can safely help their community during these difficult times by donating to a shelter or food bank, supporting nonprofits, donating blood, or performing a wellness check (by phone or text) on older neighbors. You can find out more
here
.
For updated information on COVID-19, please visit
https://www.covid19.ca.gov
.
As always, our office is available to assist during these challenging times. Please don't hesitate to reach out to us at (818) 346-4521 or
Assemblymember.Gabriel@assembly.ca.gov
if there is anything we can do to help you or your family.
Please take care of yourselves and each other. We will get through this together.
Sincerely,
JESSE GABRIEL
Assemblymember, 45th District
P.S. -- You can receive more information about pending legislation and community events by following me on
Facebook
,
Instagram
, or
Twitter
.
visit
my website
send
me an email
© 2020 California State Assembly
Capitol Office:
State Capitol
P.O. Box 942849
Sacramento, CA 94249-0045
Tel: (916) 319-2045
Fax: (916) 319-2145
District Office:
20750 Ventura Blvd.
Suite 101
Woodland Hills, CA 91364
Tel: (818) 346-4521
Fax: (818) 346-4526