Legislation Strengthens “Red Flag Laws” By Requiring California to Honor and Enforce Gun Violence Restraining Orders (GVROs) Issued in Other States
SACRAMENTO, CA
— Earlier this week, the California State Senate passed Assembly Bill (AB) 2617, a measure that aims to fill the vacuum created by federal inaction on gun violence by ensuring that California honors and enforces gun violence restraining orders (GVROs) issued in other states. AB 2617 is authored by Assemblymember Jesse Gabriel (D-Encino), who founded the Legislature’s Gun Violence Prevention Working Group, and who has called for broader state-level cooperation on issues related to gun violence. The bill passed with bipartisan support and is now on its way to Governor Gavin Newsom, who must sign or veto the bill by September 30, 2020.
“With Congress repeatedly failing to act, California must take a broader view and do more to address threats of gun violence that originate beyond our borders,” said Assemblymember Gabriel. “Last year’s mass shooting at the Gilroy Garlic Festival was a tragic reminder that guns and gun violence too often cross state lines. This legislation will help to prevent mass shootings and save lives by ensuring that those who have been deemed a threat to themselves or others cannot easily obtain firearms in the State of California.”
A GVRO is a judicial order that allows law enforcement to temporarily confiscate firearms from an individual who poses an imminent risk of harm to themselves or others. When used to their full potential, GVROs are a powerful tool that can prevent mass shootings and suicides and save lives. Laws providing for GVROs, which are sometimes referred to as “red flag laws” or “extreme risk protection orders,” have been enacted in numerous other states.
AB 2617 is supported by a broad coalition that includes law enforcement and gun safety advocates.
Alex Griffin Walker, Northern California Political Director for March For Our Lives added, “Every day in America, more than 100 lives are taken by the deadly epidemic of gun violence and young people are being disproportionately affected. Suicides are the second leading cause of death among preteens to young adults. Thousands of deaths could have possibly been prevented with the right procedures in place. California has led the nation in gun violence prevention, and by continuing to strengthen our GVRO laws, these bills will help save lives. March for our Lives is proud to support Assemblymember Gabriel’s bill to ensure the safety of our families and communities.”