Introduces California Broadband Infrastructure and Distance Learning Bond Act 2020 to help students with distance learning
Torrance, CA –
Assemblymember Al Muratsuchi’s (D-Torrance) statement on California Governor Gavin Newsom’s May Revise budget proposal:
“Today Governor Gavin Newsom released his May Revise Budget.  As expected, the COVID-19 pandemic hit California’s budget hard, with tax revenues taking a sharp downturn and unprecedented expenditures from the COVID19 crisis, including funding for over 4.5 million unemployed Californians.  The state went from a record budget surplus to a deficit in just months.”
“This pandemic has dramatically changed the daily lives of families throughout the state, especially those with schoolchildren.  Most our state’s public school students are now learning remotely. While some districts have managed to make this dramatic transition to distance learning, other districts, especially in rural California, do not have the broadband infrastructure or resources to ensure their children’s success in this new distance learning reality. With our state’s budget shortfall, there are not enough funds to close this digital divide.”
“Today, I am introducing the California Broadband Infrastructure and Distance Learning Bond Act of 2020.  This will enable the state to sell bonds that will invest in broadband infrastructure throughout the state, particularly in rural areas, and help school districts purchase devices and technology needed to support distance learning.  This crisis presents an opportunity to invest in critical broadband infrastructure that will not only build the foundation of the state’s economic recovery but more immediately help close the digital divide and provide access to the internet for all.”
Assemblymember Al Muratsuchi, the Assistant Majority Leader for Policy and Research,  represents California’s 66th Assembly District, which includes El Camino Village, Gardena, Harbor City, Harbor Gateway, Hermosa Beach, Lomita, Los Angeles, Manhattan Beach, Palos Verdes Estates, Rancho Palos Verdes, Redondo Beach, Rolling Hills, Rolling Hills Estates, Torrance, and West Carson.  Muratsuchi is the Chair of the Assembly Select Committee on Aerospace, and is a member of the Assembly Committees on Budget, Budget Subcommittee on Education Finance, Environmental Safety and Toxic Materials, Natural Resources, Utilities and Energy, and Veterans Affairs.
CONTACT:
Kerry Jacob, 310-806-0893