SACRAMENTO – Assemblymember James Ramos (D-Highland) issued the following statement today following Governor Gavin Newsom’s 2020 State of the State address:
The governor should be praised for his focused and continued approach to California’s homeless crisis. He was correct to make the State of the State a call to action, not just a moment to feel a pang of guilt.
It’s why I was eager to begin work as
Chair of the newly created Select Committee on Homelessness in San Bernardino County
. Homelessness is not a standalone problem. It is the “canary in the mine” –a symptom of more than just lack of shelter, and California’s approach to solving this crisis must tackle the problem in a coordinated, broad approach that also deals with how mental illness, poverty, joblessness, lack of job skills, substance abuse and other issues affect a homeless individual.
I am ready to work with local communities and the governor on his five-point plan to deal with the crisis. Over the past week, I introduced legislation to move forward his proposals. One measure, AB 2385, would use an underused state facility in my district to assist in solving this crisis and help our homeless mentally ill get off the streets while receiving critically needed care. With my
AB 2404
, I am working to meet his call for reform of limited and general conservatorships. As a member of the Assembly Budget Committee, I am championing a budget item for $250 million in one-time state General Fund money over three years to aid local law enforcement in building up their pre-trial mental health diversion programs so that county jails are not used as mental health treatment centers as the governor described in his speech.
AB 2385 would allow Patton State Hospital to contract with a nonprofit corporation or local government to provide transition, step-down housing services. Services would be offered in a structured, “home-like” setting so individuals may receive care and observation after release from a long term and/or short period restrictive psychiatric setting.
AB 2404 would enact recommendations from the State Auditor after its study of a 53-year old statute, the Lanterman-Petris-Short Act, designed to provide short-term, community-based intensive treatment to individuals with mental health disorders who are dangerous to themselves or others, or who are gravely disabled.
###
Assemblymember James Ramos proudly represents the 40th Assembly district which includes Highland, Loma Linda, Mentone, Rancho Cucamonga, Redlands, and San Bernardino.