Orange County and Cities Receive Funding to Address Immediate Homelessness Challenges
Orange County
:
Assemblywoman Sharon Quirk-Silva
(D – Fullerton) is proud to announce that the County of Orange, City of Anaheim and Santa Ana, Anaheim/Orange County Continuum of Care will be receiving funding to address immediate homelessness challenges.
“I am excited that Orange County and the cities will be receiving necessary state funds to address the homelessness crisis in our communities,” said
Assemblywoman Sharon Quirk-Silva
. “Now more than ever, it is imperative that we protect the homeless population in Orange County.”
The
Homeless Housing, Assistance and Prevention (HHAP)
program was passed by the Legislature and signed into law by Governor Newsom in July 2019. The legislation included a budget allocation of $650 million to provide block grants to local jurisdictions, including continuums of care, cities, and counties. The funds are awarded to local entities that apply, to support regional coordination and expand or develop local capacity to address their immediate homelessness challenges.
Grants Awarded
City of Anaheim                                                                                $ 8,422,162
Orange County                                                                                 $ 7,486,575
Santa Ana, Anaheim/Orange County Continuum of Care          $ 8,081,115
These one-time block grants were awarded by the Business, Consumer Services and Housing Agency Homeless Coordinating and Financing Council. This grant can be used for services, including, but not limited to, rental assistance and rapid re-housing, delivery of permanent housing, and new navigation centers and emergency shelters.
“I would like to thank the county and cities for their dedication to help the homelessness issue in our region,” said
Assemblywoman Sharon Quirk-Silva
. “It is a collaborative effort between the state and local governments to ensure we help those in need within our communities.”