SACRAMENTO – Assemblymember Marc Berman (D-Menlo Park) issued the following statement in response to Governor Newsom’s January budget proposal:
“The budget that Governor Newsom unveiled today is a reflection of the bold and progressive values we hold dear in California. I am particularly impressed by the governor’s proposed investment in computer science education, including nearly $20 million for teacher training and resource coordination. Since my days working at the Silicon Valley Education Foundation, it has been a longstanding goal of mine to close the STEM education gap in California schools. In the 24th Assembly District, too few students have access to computer science courses, despite living in the heart of the Silicon Valley.
“I am also encouraged by the governor’s proposed funding to support food pantries on community college campuses. In a recent survey of nearly 40,000 students at 57 California Community Colleges, half had experienced food insecurity in the previous month. We must do even more to address the basic needs challenges of our higher education students, including homelessness and housing insecurity.
“On a similar note, I am pleased to see the governor’s proposal to improve the quality of school meals, including funding to establish a Farm to School Grant Program to promote partnerships between California agriculture and schools.
“As a strong advocate for universal preschool, I am very supportive of the governor’s proposal to fund 10,000 new full-day preschool slots. Children who attend high-quality preschools are more likely to go to college and earn higher wages. These news slots would put thousands of children on the path toward academic success and economic security.
“I look forward to working with my colleagues and the administration over the next several months to refine and finalize the state budget, continuing to save for a rainy day while also tackling some of California’s most pressing challenges.”
Contact: Kaitlin Curry, (916) 319-2024