Assemblywoman Quirk-Silva Introduces Resolution to Commemorate
Korean American Day
Sacramento, CA
-
Assemblymember Sharon Quirk-Silva
(D-Fullerton) participated in the most unique Organizational Session in our State’s 170-year illustrious history, due to the surging COVID-19 pandemic. The State Assembly held their first meeting at Sacramento’s
Golden One Arena
to allow for social distancing capabilities
.
Assemblywoman Quirk-Silva was thrilled to introduce Assembly Concurrent Resolution 2 in recognition of
Korean American Day
.  Every January, California celebrates Korean American Day to honor Korean American's immense contributions to every aspect of society.
The history of Korean immigration to America began when 102 courageous Korean adults and children landed in the State of Hawaii aboard the S.S. Gaelic on January 13, 1903.  By 1907, approximately 1,000 Korean Americans entered the United States mainland through San Francisco which has since been the center of the Korean American Community.  Today, with over 1.7 million Korean Americans across our nation, Southern California is home to two of largest Korean American communities in the United States.
"Korean Americans are the largest and fastest growing citizens of Orange County, making my district the second largest Korean American community in the nation," said
Assemblywoman Sharon Quirk-Silva
.  "I am honored to represent a district that includes a Korean American community that continues to contribute to the fabric of our nation in the fields of finance, technology, law, medicine, education, sports, media, the arts, the military, government, science, business, and entertainment.”
Korean American Day speaks to the proud and rich history of a people in search of opportunity, and the freedoms America presents, to those who want to make a better life for their families and children. I am proud that Assembly District 65 continues to be a haven to our ever growing Korean American community.
"Korean Americans have been at the forefront of what they call
Hallyu,
which means Korean Wave, through music and film, Korean entertainment has become an integral part of mainstream American culture," said Assemblywoman Quirk-Silva.  "As the Chair of the
Assembly Committee on Arts, Entertainment, Sports, Tourism, and Internet Media,
we can celebrate and uplift Korean American culture in California."
###
Assemblywoman Sharon Quirk-Silva represents the 65th Assembly District, which includes the Orange County communities of Anaheim, Buena Park, Cypress, Fullerton, Garden Grove, La Palma, and Stanton