(SACRAMENTO, CA)
- Today, Chris Ward (D-San Diego) was sworn in as the Assemblymember for the 78
th
Assembly District, which includes the cities of Coronado, Del Mar, Imperial Beach, Solana Beach, and the coastal, urban, and mid-city communities of the City of San Diego.
“I am deeply honored to represent the resident of the 78
th
Assembly District in our State Capitol,” said Assemblymember Ward.  “The district has a long history of bold, progressive, independent leadership and I plan to carry this forward.  I have spent my public service career fighting homelessness and climate change, investing in job creation and working to support small businesses.  I stand ready to rebuild our economy with jobs that prioritize health and safety for all.”
The 80-member Assembly was sworn in at noon today in a ceremony held at Sacramento State University in order to accommodate COVID-19 guidelines for safe distancing.  While normally a time for celebration and inspiration for family and supporters, Assemblymember Ward was accompanied only by his partner, Thom Harpole.  “My family and I share in stressful times that all Californians are facing and I look forward to getting to work with my colleagues to reduce the impacts of the pandemic, as well as position California for better days ahead,” said Assemblymember Ward.
Elected to San Diego City Council in 2016, Assemblymember Ward has dedicated his life to public service.  He authored San Diego’s landmark Equal Pay Ordinance, and wrote a law to make San Diego the largest city in California to ban Styrofoam.  Before his time on City Council, the Assemblymember served as Chief of Staff to State Senator Marty Block.
Additionally, Assemblymember Ward has long been a community volunteer, serving on the San Diego Community College District’s Citizens Oversight Committee, serving as a board member of the San Diego Human Dignity Foundation and San Diego LGBT Center, and serving as a member of the Truman National Security Project.
Chris and his partner, Thom, live in University Heights with their two children who motivate him every day to make the world better for our kids to grow up in.
Learn more about Assemblymember Ward’s background and legislative priorities on the most recent episode of the
Look West podcast
.