(Monterey, CA) – Congressman Jimmy Panetta (D- Carmel Valley), Senator Bill Monning (D- Carmel), Senator Anna Caballero (D- Salinas), Assemblymember Mark Stone (D- Scotts Valley), Assemblymember Robert Rivas (D- Hollister), Supervisor Chris Lopez (Greenfield), and Supervisor Mary Adams (D- Pebble Beach) today issued the following statement regarding the devastating wildfires in Monterey County.
“Our number one priority is the safety of Monterey County residents.  While we are all aware and concerned about state firefighting resources being stretched thin, we are working non-stop with our federal, state and local partners to provide public safety and disaster response measures throughout the region.  Right now, many of you may see additional firefighting resources arriving to the area.
We are well aware of the gravity of the situation…we have been directly impacted, along with our families and our friends...and ask that residents remain vigilant to current fire conditions, and continue to adhere to emergency personnel instructions.  These instructions are to protect you, your neighbors, and our first responders.
We also ask anyone considering to travel to Monterey County to delay your travel plans.  This will ensure that already limited local resources are not strained.
Lastly, thank you to the courageous firefighters, first responders and public safety officials for their ongoing commitment to protecting the residents of Monterey County.”
Monterey County is working in collaboration with the American Red Cross to offer an evacuation center and shelter is available for residents displaced by the fires.  The evacuation center is located at the Weather Tech Raceway Laguna Seca on Highway 68.  The 24-hour evacuation shelter is open at Carmel Middle School, 4380 Carmel Valley Road.
SPCA Monterey County is offering assistance with evacuating animals.  Call the SPCA for more information at 831-264-5455.
For residents needing assistance in finding accommodations due to the fires, contact the Red Cross at 866-272-2237 or call 211.
The Monterey County Sheriff’s office is hosting a public information line.  Please call 925-532-5455 for current evacuation orders and other public safety measures.
California currently has almost 12,000 firefighters battling the major fires and complexes.
For the most current information on the fires, please visit: fire.ca.gov
# # #