FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: Wednesday, September 9, 2020
HUNTINGTON BEACH – Assemblywoman Cottie Petrie-Norris has announced that the California State Coastal Conservancy has allocated a $2,460,000 grant to acquire the 44-acre Newland Marsh property in Huntington Beach from the California Department of Transportation, and to transfer the property to the Huntington Beach Wetlands Conservancy (HBWC).
“Now more than ever, we must support habitat restoration projects to protect our coastline in the face of climate change,”
said Assemblywoman Petrie-Norris (D-Laguna Beach)
. “This grant from the State Coastal Conservancy will make an incredible difference in preserving the sensitive wetland habitat of Newland Marsh, while increasing access to natural spaces for the public.”
“This year, more than ever, California's coast and outdoor space have been a source of respite, recreation and joy. Our work on the Newland Marsh is a part of our continued commitment to keeping our coastlines healthy, resilient against climate change, and accessible to all.”
said Sam Schuchat, executive officer of the Coastal Conservancy
. “There is still much more work to do, but this acquisition is a major step forward for our work in Huntington Beach and Southern California.”
“The grant is fantastic news and will enable us to provide habitat for a number of endangered and threatened species of birds. e.g. Clapper Rail, Western Snowy Plover, Belding Savannah Sparrow and more.”
said John Villa, Executive Director of the Huntington Beach Wetlands Conservancy
. “The restoration will also remove the standing fresh water along the northern edge of Newland Marsh West and should resolve the mosquito issue that has plagued this area for over two decades.”
Newland Marsh contains sensitive wetland habitats, and the acquisition and restoration of the Marsh is the culmination of a 30-year joint effort between the HBWC and the Coastal Conservancy.
The project’s aim is to secure the Huntington Beach wetlands, restore the marshes, and providing public access and interpretation. HWBC has already completed full tidal restorations at Talbert, Brookhurst, and Magnolia Marshes, and in 2019, completed a conceptual restoration plan for Newland Marsh.
###
Assemblywoman Cottie Petrie-Norris represents the 74th District including all or parts of Huntington Beach, Newport Beach, Costa Mesa, Laguna Beach, Irvine, and Laguna Woods. She is the Chair of the Accountability and Administrative Review Committee and the Select Committee on Student Debt.  Follow the Assemblywoman on Twitter https://twitter.com/AsmCottie or on Facebook https://www.facebook.com/AssemblywomanCPN.