Nearly 100 Nonprofits Awarded Funding Under New Program Established Following the Deadly Synagogue Shooting in Poway
SACRAMENTO, CA —
Yesterday, the California Office of Emergency Services (CalOES) awarded $15 million in grants to 87 nonprofit organizations across California through the newly established California State Nonprofit Security Grant Program.
“In a world where hate crimes and antisemitism are on the rise, government must do more to protect vulnerable communities,” said Assemblymember Jesse Gabriel (D - Woodland Hills), who authored legislation establishing the Nonprofit Security Grant Program. “This funding will provide critical security resources and sends a powerful message that the State of California stands firmly with those targeted by hate.”
Last October, Governor Gavin Newsom signed Assembly Bill (AB) 1548 by Assemblymember Jesse Gabriel, who serves as Vice Chair of the California Legislative Jewish Caucus. AB 1548 formally established the California State Nonprofit Security Grant Program (NSGP) to provide security funding for nonprofit organizations at risk of hate-motivated violence. This legislation marked a historic commitment by the State of California to increase protection for vulnerable institutions following an uptick in violent extremism, including the deadly attack at the Chabad Synagogue in Poway, California in April 2019.
In December, CalOES received 456 applications for the NSGP. Eighty seven organizations have been awarded grants, including numerous synagogues, mosques, churches, and LGBT community centers across California.
Grant funds awarded through the NSGP will help at-risk nonprofits with physical security enhancements and security personnel. The maximum grant is $200,000 per institution. Many nonprofit institutions, including houses of worship and community centers, operate on extremely limited budgets and would be unable to fund needed security enhancements without the funds provided by this new program.
Securing additional funding for the NSGP continues to be a top priority for Assemblymember Gabriel and the California Legislative Jewish Caucus.
###
Jesse Gabriel serves in the Assembly Leadership as Assistant Majority Whip. He represents the 45th Assembly District, which includes much of the west San Fernando Valley. Assemblymember
Gabriel currently serves on the Committees on Appropriations, Banking and Finance, Higher Education, Housing and Community Development, and Privacy and Consumer Protection.