CARLSBAD
— In recognition of the extraordinary volunteerism of military service members, veterans, and their family, Assemblymember Tasha Boerner Horvath is calling for nominations to spotlight military-connected community members in the 76th Assembly District.
“With so many active and retired service members who call North County home, it’s no wonder so many of us can say that our lives have been touched by someone who has worn a uniform,” said Assemblymember Boerner Horvath. “These heroes are all around us, taking care of our neighborhoods, bringing people together, and improving lives. It’s important that we give these community champions the recognition they deserve.”
To thank and honor these individuals for their outstanding community service, the Assemblymember’s office is collecting nominations for each of the following categories: Distinguished Veteran of the Year, Military Spouse of the Year, Excellence in Mentorship, Excellence in Advocacy, Excellence in the Arts, Excellence in Service (California National Guard), and Youth Leader Achievement Award (ROTC). Individuals will then be selected for each category to be honored at a virtual military and veteran’s recognition event in November.
Nominees must reside or work in the 76th Assembly District, which includes the cities of Encinitas, Carlsbad, Oceanside, Vista, Camp Pendleton, and some surrounding unincorporated areas. Nominees can be veterans, active duty service members, military spouses, or youth members of the military community. Nominations will be accepted until Friday, October 23rd.
Those interested in submitting a nomination are encouraged to visit the
Assemblymember’s webpage
and fill out a submission form at https://a77.asmdc.org/vmsa. The nomination form can also be
downloaded,
printed, and mailed to the Assemblymember’s district office, located at 325 Carlsbad Village Drive, Suite A-2, Carlsbad, CA 92008. For questions about the nomination process, please call (760) 434-7605 or email District Director Janet Chin at Janet.Chin@asm.ca.gov for more details.
#