Oakland –
Senator Nancy Skinner (D-Berkeley) and Assemblymembers Rob Bonta (D-Oakland) and Buffy Wicks (D-Oakland) issued the following joint statement on the six-county Bay Area Stay-at-Home order:
“During these unprecedented times, it is important that we take care of one another and make decisions that are in the best interest of public health.
“Today’s Order covering six Bay Area counties is a difficult, yet appropriate step to reduce the spread of COVID-19 and protect our families, friends, and communities. It is the right thing to do. This temporary step to stay at home unless absolutely necessary must be followed to reduce the harmful impact of this pandemic. Our County Health leaders are experts in their fields, and they have our best interests in mind.
“While non-essential gatherings of any size outside the home must halt, it’s important to note that people are still allowed to go out for necessary trips to grocery stores, accessing health care, and helping families, friends or others who need our help. People can also go outside for exercise as long as they maintain six feet of separation from others.
“We know these orders will increase economic hardship, and we’re working together to mitigate these difficulties as much as possible. We’re committed to helping people stay in their homes, providing relief for small businesses, and collaborating with essential providers like local food banks to make sure nobody goes without what they need.
“It’s critical that we continue to follow facts, not fear.  We will get through this together— that is what we do, and who we are.  As members of the State Legislature, we are working around the clock for you to make sure our state is responding to help our communities and our individual constituents.
“We know these are challenging times, but let’s stay calm and maintain a mindset of care and compassion for our fellow Californians.”
Contacts:
Robert Gammon, Communications Director, Senator Skinner
robert.gammon@sen.ca.gov
Erin Ivie, Communications Director, Assemblymember Wicks
erin.ivie@asm.ca.gov
/ 510-619-8495
Jerome Parra, Communications Director, Assemblymember Bonta
jerome.parra@asm.ca.gov
/ 916-472-4896