SACRAMENTO
– Every year, the California Legislative Women’s Caucus sponsors the annual “Woman of the Year” celebration as part of Women’s History Month. This year, Assemblymember Jacqui Irwin (D-Thousand Oaks) named Santa Rosa Valley resident, Rosemary Allsion, as her 2020 Woman of the Year.
“It is a great joy to honor powerful women that are pillars of our community every year,” said Assemblymember Jacqui Irwin. “Rosemary’s life-long dedication to bringing people together for the greater good has made her an incredible leader in our community. Known for her philanthropy and her business acumen, year after year she has worked to raise funds for the American Cancer Society, Y.M.C.A. and For The Troops; that’s why I’m proud to honor her as the 2020 Woman of the Year.”
Rosemary serves as an elected member of the Santa Rosa Valley Municipal Advisory Council, which has overseen the development of a local equestrian and hiking park, supported the installation of traffic lights and provided emergency housing for animals during wildfires. Long known for her interest in public safety, she has also helped to establish the Santa Rosa Valley Community Emergency Response Team (CERT) that links the community with information on fire updates, mountain lion sightings, and local crimes.
She currently serves on the Board of For The Troops, a nonprofit that ships 2,000 “We Care” packages to deployed servicemembers each month.  For the last three years, she has also chaired the annual gala at The Ronald Reagan Presidential Library to raise funds to mitigate the $30,000 monthly postage. Additionally, Rosemary is a successful businesswoman, recognized by the Wall Street Journal as one of the Top 250 realtors in the United States.
Due to the unprecedented spread of COVID-19, the Woman of the Year luncheon and celebration that had been scheduled to take place on March 23rd in Sacramento have been cancelled. Nevertheless, Rosemary will be celebrated locally on a later date.
Assemblymember Jacqui Irwin represents California’s 44th Assembly District, which includes the communities of Camarillo, Lake Sherwood, Moorpark, Oak Park, Oxnard, Port Hueneme, Santa Rosa Valley, Thousand Oaks, and Westlake Village.
###