SACRAMENTO – Cottie Petrie-Norris was sworn in today for her second term serving California’s 74
th
Assembly District which includes Newport Beach, Costa Mesa, Laguna Beach, Laguna Woods and parts of Irvine and Huntington Beach.
“It is an honor to be trusted to serve Orange County in the State Assembly during this time of unprecedented challenge for California,” said Petrie-Norris. “In the Assembly, I will continue fighting to combat climate change, support local businesses and save tax dollars. And I will keep working with experts to beat COVID-19 and build back our community, stronger than before.”
This 2021-22 Organizational Session was scheduled as required by the California Constitution. On the recommendation of Sacramento County health officials, session was held at the Golden 1 Center in Sacramento to allow for physical distancing. In order to minimize opportunities for COVID-19 exposure, this was an unprecedented swearing-in ceremony with no guests and no in-person celebrations.
“We know that the statewide stay at home order has saved lives, we also know that it has been a tremendous sacrifice for workers, families and small businesses all across our state,” said Petrie-Norris. “While prioritizing re-opening safely, I will tirelessly pursue accountability, ensuring our government is spending Californian’s tax dollars efficiently and effectively. Working with my colleagues, I believe we can build a better future for all Californians.”
During the 2019-2020 Session Assemblywoman Petrie-Norris authored legislation to p
rotect the California Coast from the threat of sea-level rise, keep good paying jobs in California, expand access to healthcare for low income seniors and access to reproductive healthcare for California women. She has secured millions of dollars back to the district for a groundbreaking wildfire prevention and response program, coastal restoration projects and ending veterans homelessness in Orange County.
###
Assemblywoman Cottie Petrie-Norris represents California’s 74th District. She is the Chair of the Accountability and Administrative Review Committee and the Select Committee on Student Debt.  After working her way through Yale University, where she double majored in Economics and English, Cottie had a successful 20-year career in finance and technology. She helped to build businesses and led teams at Fortune 500 corporations, small companies and start-ups. Cottie lives in Laguna Beach with her husband, Colin, their two sons, Dylan and Hayden, and their rescue dog, Flounder. Follow the Assemblywoman on Twitter
https://twitter.com/AsmCottie
or on Facebook
https://www.facebook.com/AssemblywomanCPN
.