Assemblywoman Quirk-Silva Returns to State Capitol to Tackle Budget and Legislation Related to COVID-19
Sacramento, CA –
Assemblywoman Sharon Quirk-Silva (D-Fullerton) heads back to Sacramento as the State Assembly reconvenes today. While the state continues to be under the Governor’s shelter-in-place order, the Assemblywoman wants to make sure Californians receive the resources they need during and after the COVID-19 pandemic.
The Legislature’s top priority is to pass the state budget.  This is a critical time, as people have lost their jobs, businesses have closed, and children have been out of school.  There are a lot of services and programs that will need funds and resources to help those most impacted by the pandemic.
“Our budget and legislation requests have shifted in order to address the growing concerns of the pandemic,” said Assemblywoman Quirk-Silva. “We have to provide critical funding with projected lower revenue resources.  Nevertheless, I am pleased that the focus regarding homelessness, mental health, and education are still able to be addressed.”
Legislative Package
Assembly Bill 2668: Integrated School- Based Behavioral Health Partnership:
Creates the Integrated School-Based Behavioral Health Partnership Program encouraging local educational agencies and county behavioral health agencies to collaborate on providing on-school campus mental and behavioral health services for all students.
Assembly Bill 2883: Child Care Reimbursement:
Makes several changes to the Child Care and Development Services Act related to alternative payment programs in order to improve access to and viability of child care providers.
Assembly Bill 2265: Mental Health Services:
Authorizes counties to treat patients with mental health issues and co-occurring substance use disorders, state-wide under the Mental Health Services Act.
Assembly Bill 2895: Mobile Home Rent Stabilization:
Provides rent stabilization and protections for mobile home owners who rent the land their home sits on, as well as for anyone who rents a mobile home.
During the Assembly’s return to the State Capitol, extra safety precautions will be taken. Members and staff will practice safe social distancing, as well as adhere to all public health guidelines. All requested meetings will be held remotely. During the shelter-in-place order, those who wish to provide public testimony during budget hearings and limited policy committee hearings are encouraged to do so remotely. All committee hearings will be livestreamed on the California State Assembly’s website. If the public would like to participate, call-in instructions will be displayed on the livestream.
“Certainly, adapting to the circumstances of this situation is not easy, but this has been a difficult time for everyone,” said Assemblywoman Quirk-Silva.  “As we return to Sacramento, it is important to me to ensure that Assembly District 65 gets the resources they need during and after this pandemic.  However, we have to do it with a delicate balance of keeping ourselves, our families, our constituents, and our communities safe and healthy”.
###