(SACRAMENTO, CA)
– Assemblymember Robert Rivas (D-Hollister) issued the following statement after Governor Gavin Newsom released his initial budget proposal:
“Governor Newsom’s proposed budget continues California’s commitment to elevate working families and address the real challenges that Californians face every day. With strong and innovative investments to improve access and opportunity, our state can extend a vibrant future to all, while ensuring that we are fiscally responsible.”
“$750 million to establish the California Access to Housing and Services Fund is a much needed investment to continue addressing our homelessness crisis. I share the Governor’s commitment to tackling homelessness and ensuring our state builds the housing we need.”
“The budget includes innovative plans to address the climate crisis and supports our farmers and cultivated lands as part of the solution. The Governor proposes several investments and strategies to increase carbon sequestration and support the state’s forests, agricultural lands and water systems. The budget includes $225 million for new construction and retrofitting of community resiliency centers, including our fairgrounds, which supports adaptation needs that will address extreme climate conditions. These centers will serve both as community evacuation and emergency response centers, and will assist in building long-term resilience and recovery operations for local communities.”
“Californians in rural areas around the State face many challenges when it comes to connectivity and access. As we enter a new decade, it is imperative that we take bold steps to provide broadband for all. The Governor is taking the necessary and correct steps by allotting $260.9 million over the next five years to improve broadband infrastructure.”
“California is long overdue in expanding healthcare to our low-income senior citizens, regardless of immigration status, and this proposal does just that. Our budget is a reflection of our shared Californian values, and immigration status should never be a barrier to receiving basic access to healthcare.  Access to primary and preventive care enables doctors to identify and treat health issues early on and will, over time, reduce the need for people to use emergency room services for primary healthcare.”
“I applaud the Governor’s push to make prescription drugs more affordable and accessible to all Californians, and I look forward to digging in together to work on innovative solutions.”
“Our state does not do nearly enough to support our teachers and, as a result, we face a serious teacher shortage. That’s why I worked to create the Golden State Teacher Grant program to help support and bring more teachers into our classrooms. I’m encouraged by the budget’s proposed additional investments in education workforce development, teacher recruitment and diversity, especially for our highest-need districts. As such, I will continue to fight for our teachers and students through the budget process.”
###