SACRAMENTO, Calif --- Assemblymember Mike A. Gipson (D-Carson) released the following statement on Governor Gavin Newsom’s 2020 Proposed Budget
“Today, Gov. Newsom released a comprehensive budget proposal that will benefit Californians statewide and locally. It’s a good start and I look forward to the transformative changes that the Governor wants to set in motion,” said Assemblymember Gipson. “My bill AB879 requiring the registration of precursor parts to build “ghost guns” was passed and set to be implemented by the Department of Justice in 2024. Due to the increase of gun violence and the increased use of ghost guns, the Governor believes that the risk that such guns present to public safety warrants an accelerated implementation to July 2, 2022.”
Some of the key highlights include:
EDUCATION - More money for schools including granting $20k stipends to teachers at high needs schools.
HEALTH - An overall push for accountability on jobs. Gov. Newsom wants ‘real enforcement’ in the DMHC (Dept. Managed Health Care), and said, “people will do their jobs or they will be fired and held accountable.” Transforming the Medi-Cal system and more funds for income-eligible young adults, seniors aged 65 and older, regardless of immigration status. Reduce prescription drug prices, with insulin being at the top of the line.’ Focusing on “whole person care,” wellness and prevention and programs for chronic over-utilizers. Creation of wellness centers at schools.
BUSINESS - Tax cuts for small businesses, including making them exempt for the first year.
PUBLIC SAFETY - Close state prison (2022-2024) and shut down contract private facilities.
Transform prisons for youth offenders (under age 25), creating a campus style with mentors and focused on academic partnerships with local colleges. Making probation a two-year maximum while giving more money to frontload for adult offenders. More money for indigent defense. $51 million for cyber security. Focus on mental health treatment as it relates to diversion, incarceration and re-entry.
HOMELESS/HOUSING - $6.8 billion to be invested in housing redevelopment. Part of the $5.6 billion budget surplus will be allocated for green technology and homeless aid.
###