(SACRAMENTO, CA)
– Assemblymember Robert Rivas (D-Hollister) introduced AB 3153, an idea submitted by Zachary Hilton, a constituent from Gilroy. This bill provides a secure place for individuals and families to store their bicycles, while incentivizing active and sustainable transit like bike and car-share usage.
The idea was submitted through Assemblymember Rivas’ “There Ought to be a Law” program. The program offered constituents the opportunity to propose new state legislation this year. “Some of the best ideas we work on in the Legislature come directly from constituents like Mr. Hilton, who are seeing problems in their neighborhoods firsthand. When we work together as a community, we produce better solutions that impact us directly,” Rivas said.
On his idea, Hilton stated, "All multi-family, residential development bike parking in California is voluntary unless a local jurisdiction has an ordinance. Families, young adults, and seniors all need a safe place to store their bikes and incentives to not drive their cars. This bill supports the vision of a healthy California and enhances California’s economy and livability. Long-term bike parking, when combined with car-share, play a key role in providing a safe, sustainable, integrated, and efficient transportation system.”
Assemblymember Rivas agrees, adding “AB 3153 eases parking requirements for residential developers in exchange for additional bicycle or car-sharing parking spaces. With the growing concerns around our environment, AB 3153 promotes bike and car-share usage, which are healthier transit options not only for our residents, but for our planet.”
“California faces a number of challenges and it is inspiring to see constituents engaged in our civic process by offering solutions to the issues in our neighborhoods. I commend Mr. Hilton for his passion on this idea. I look forward to working with my colleagues to pass this important legislation,” concluded Rivas.
###
Assemblymember Robert Rivas (D-Hollister) represents California’s 30th Assembly District, which includes all or portions of the cities and towns of Aromas, Big Sur, Chualar, Gilroy, Greenfield, Gonzales, Hollister, King City, Morgan Hill, Salinas, San Martin, San Juan Bautista, Soledad, Spreckels, and Watsonville.