SACRAMENTO
— On Monday, November 9
th
, Assemblymember Marc Berman (D-Menlo Park) will host a panel of health policy leaders to discuss their innovative solution for responding to the rising cost of health care.
Moderated by Vicki Veenker, Director of the
California Health Reform Initiative (CHRI),
the webinar will present the findings of a recent
report
released by the Convergence Center for Policy Resolution. The report was authored by a diverse set of health care policy stakeholders convened by CHRI to bridge ideological divides to bring down health care costs in California.
“I am thrilled to explore new solutions to make health care more accessible to every Californian,” said Assemblymember Berman. “This proposal, crafted by an ideologically diverse set of experts, is a model for collaborating to create good policy.”
“Our broad coalition came to a consensus that improving health care affordability requires greater transparency and accountability,” said Vicki Veenker. “There’s a lot of momentum behind their solution because of the recognition that we have to do something bold to effect the change we need in California.”
The panelists will discuss how this solution would contain health care costs in the wake of COVID-19. Garnering broad support from consumers, doctors, insurers, employers, and workers, this proposal was introduced last year by both Governor Newsom and Assembly Health Chair, Dr. Jim Wood.
The panelists include:
Lanhee Chen, Hoover Institution Fellow and Director of Domestic Policy Studies, Stanford University
Bill Kramer, Executive Director for Health Policy, Pacific Business Group on Health
Laurel Lucia, Director of the Health Care Program, UC Berkeley Labor Center
To learn more and to RSVP
click here.
###
Assemblymember Marc Berman represents the 24
th
Assembly District, which includes southern San Mateo County and northern Santa Clara County in the heart of the Silicon Valley. Website of Assemblymember Marc Berman:
www.assembly.ca.gov/Berman
. Assemblymember Marc Berman’s official headshot is available
here
.