Assemblywoman Quirk-Silva Responds to May Revision Budget Proposal to Legislature
Sacramento, CA
-
Assemblymember Sharon Quirk-Silva
appreciates Governor Newsom’s commitment to protect public education, public health, public safety, and businesses. As the unprecedented COVID-19 pandemic has dramatically shifted the lives of Californians and businesses, the May Revise has a stark contrast to the Governor’s January budget proposal.
“Our state and our nation is in a recession and it is important to be diligent about where our money is going,” said
Assemblymember Quirk-Silva
. ”The state is working pragmatically to protect the lives of Californians during this uncertain time.”
The Governor’s May revision addressed a substantial decline in state revenues and a budget deficit. The decrease in revenue along with increased costs in health and human services and added costs to address COVID-19, have led to a projected deficit of about $54.3 billion before the changes proposed in the May revision.
These are some highlights from the Governor’s May Revise:
Prioritize $4.4 billion from federal funding to address learning loss caused by school closures, run summer programs, and make necessary modifications to helps schools reopen in the fall and help support parents’ ability to work
Maintain the number of state-funded child care slots and expand access to childcare for first responders
It is now the duty of the Legislature to pass a balanced budget using a combination of tools. This includes reducing spending, increasing revenues, and/or shifting costs. The Legislature will face difficult decisions during the budget process, but will have to work to come up with creative solutions to the problems we are facing. It is imperative for the federal government to provide economic aid to ensure we protect our communities.
“We need to make sure the people of California are healthy and safe during this time. No one could have predicted the outcomes of this pandemic,”
said Assemblymember Quirk-Silva
. “It is crucial for the Federal government to step in and help us avoid cuts to the programs that benefit the lives of Californians. I look forward to working with my colleagues in the Legislature during this unprecedented time.”
Important decisions will be made during this year’s budget decisions. The state is obligated to pass the budget by June 15th. If you would like more details on the Governor’s May Budget Revise, please visit:
http://www.ebudget.ca.gov/
.