Assemblywoman Quirk-Silva Welcomes Two New Project Homekey Investments Coming to Orange County
SACRAMENTO, CA - Today the Governor announced two New Project Homekey investments are headed to Orange County. Under the Homekey program, local entities will partner with the state to acquire and rehabilitate a variety of housing types, including, but not limited to hotels, motels, vacant apartment buildings, and residential care facilities in order to serve people experiencing homelessness or who are also at risk of serious illness from COVID-19.
For one of the projects, Orange County will acquire a 60-unit motel that will be immediately rehabilitated and rapidly occupied as interim housing. The project will then be renovated and converted into permanent supportive housing.  This project is intended to address the need for housing for people experiencing homelessness in the surrounding communities.  The motel will serve as the central location for those experiencing homelessness in Orange County to receive wrap-around services.
“As the Chair of the Select Committee on Orange County Chronic Homelessness I have seen first-hand the need for permanent supportive housing here in North Orange County,” said
Assemblywoman Quirk-Silva
.  “Since the creation of the Navigation Centers in both Fullerton and Buena Park, along with the great work being done in the North Service Provider Area, we can really see the need for the next step of permanent supportive housing here in North Orange County, these two new Project Homekey projects will certainly provide a much needed service to our homeless community.”
The second project in Orange County, outlined by the Governor, will acquire a 72-unit motel to house people experiencing or at-risk of homelessness and affected by the COVID-19 pandemic. The project will undergo immediate repairs and will be rapidly occupied as interim housing. The property will then be converted into permanent supportive housing.
To address the state’s homelessness crisis it takes coordination and collaboration at all levels of government and this is a step in the right direction.  Project Homekey advances the state’s effort to assist our most vulnerable populations as we continue to weather the COVID-19 pandemic.