SACRAMENTO
– Assemblymember Robert Rivas (D-Hollister), along with Senator Scott Wiener (D-San Francisco) and Monique Limón (D-Santa Barbara), announced today that they will be introducing a ban on fracking come December, when the next legislative session starts. This announcement follows Governor Gavin Newsom’s executive order introduced yesterday, which set a goal to phase out fracking permits by 2024. The Governor has invited legislative efforts to accomplish this.
“Fracking is one of the most toxic and environmentally damaging forms of fossil fuel extraction,” Assemblymember Rivas said. “As a county supervisor, I helped pass one of the first local bans on fracking in the country, and I believe a statewide ban is long overdue. If we’re going to solve our climate crisis, we cannot afford to kick the can down the road on this critical issue. I look forward to working with Senator Wiener and Assemblymember Limón on this important and ambitious undertaking. I also want to thank the Governor for his leadership on this issue. In order to pass the legislation necessary to stymie the devastating impacts of climate change, we all need to work together on a multitude of solutions, including this fracking ban.”
Fracking, also known as hydraulic fracturing, is a method of fossil fuel extraction that is dangerous for the environment and contributes to climate change. Fracking pollutes our water sources and the air, and can even cause earthquakes.
More details about this legislation to ban fracking will be announced in the coming months.
“We are literally killing the planet with carbon emissions, and burning fossil fuel is at the heart of the problem,” Senator Wiener said. “We must end our reliance on all forms of fossil fuel, and California must lead the way. California being one of the largest oil producers is inconsistent with being a climate leader. It’s time to begin the phase-out of California’s oil production. Let’s start with banning fracking, which is environmentally destructive, carbon-intensive, and inconsistent with respect for the land. I want to thank the Governor for stepping out on this issue, and I look forward to working with him to get this legislation passed and signed into law. I look forward to partnering with Assemblymembers Rob Rivas and Monique Limon to put this legislation on the Governor’s desk.”
“For years, science has shown that fracking can have serious environmental and community health consequences—this form of oil production impacts  water supply, air quality, and seismic activity,” said Assemblymember Limón. “Many California communities rely on scant water resources, and with climate change causing frequent droughts, those resources will become scarce. This bill will continue robust policy conversations on fossil fuels and alternative energy production that have been going on for decades. There is support from the Governor and the people of California, and as this bill moves forward, we must consider all costs, including health and safety costs to consumers, workers, and communities that have been most impacted. I applaud the recent actions by the Governor and stand ready to work with him on the next phase to support our environment.”
###
Assemblymember Robert Rivas (D-Hollister) represents California’s 30
th
Assembly District, which includes all or portions of the cities and towns of Aromas, Big Sur, Chualar, Gilroy, Greenfield, Gonzales, Hollister, King City, Morgan Hill, Salinas, San Martin, San Juan Bautista, Soledad, Spreckels, and Watsonville.