SACRAMENTO—A measure, introduced today, would enact recommendations from the State Auditor after its study of a 53-year old statute designed to provide short-term, community-based intensive treatment to individuals with mental health disorders who are dangerous to themselves or others, or who are gravely disabled.
The audit was requested in June 2019 to better understand the application of the law in order to identify its effectiveness in delivering mental health services to those who need it by stakeholders such as the National Alliance for Mental Illness California, California Hospital Association, California Police Chiefs Association, Los Angeles County, California Psychiatric Association, the Steinberg Institute and the California Emergency Room Physicians.
A concern has been that many individuals who struggle with debilitating mental health issues have no intervention treatment or shelter because of the many varying interpretations of the law.
“By introducing AB 2404, I am hoping to move the auditor’s recommendations forward thoughtfully and promptly to help ensure California updates and improves care and treatment for our involuntary patient population,” said Assemblymember James C. Ramos, the bill’s author. Ramos said the findings by the auditor who reviewed the landmark Lanterman-Petris-Short Act of 1967, are expected in March. The statute has been unchanged since its enactment.
Sacramento Mayor Darrell Steinberg, in his role as co-advisor to the Governor’s Statewide Commission on Homelessness & Supportive Housing, noted that in oral history comments, the late Sen. Nick Petris, one of the Act’s authors, had concerns about the direction it had taken. “He lamented that the act had sent the pendulum swinging dangerously off kilter in another direction, condemning vulnerable people to suffer and die on the streets because they were too sick to reach out for help,” Steinberg said. “It’s time to update the LPS Act so that the most vulnerable among us are provided the care they need, when they need it most.”
LPS allows for involuntary commitment of persons living with a mental health disorder so debilitating that they are unable to care for their basic needs. Under the law, individuals may be placed on a 72-hour involuntary hold which may be extended for 14 days. An additional 30 days or more can be added with court approval.
The audit’s scope included a review of the LPS Act, its rules and regulations, and county-by-county implementation.
“The data and recommendations will be critical to humane treatment of our mentally ill and will assist in future state planning and help communities respond to their local needs,” Ramos said.
The Steinberg Institute is sponsoring the proposal.
###
Assemblymember James Ramos proudly represents the 40th Assembly district which includes Highland, Loma Linda, Mentone, Rancho Cucamonga, Redlands, and San Bernardino.