(SACRAMENTO, CA)
- Assemblymember Robert Rivas (D-Hollister) and Senator Anna Caballero (D-Salinas) proudly acknowledge a $7.6 million award for the City of Soledad through the California State Park’s grant program. The City of Soledad plans to build a new Metz/Orchard Park. Assemblymember Rivas and Senator Caballero represent the City of Soledad in their respective districts.
“Parks improve the quality of life in our communities,” Rivas said. “Parks are open spaces where neighbors come together, where families celebrate, and children have a safe place to play. All of this improves the physical and mental well-being of our residents. I will continue to work with local leaders to improve and expand parks and green spaces in our region.”
“I want to extend sincere congratulations to the City of Soledad.  Parks make a neighborhood.  They create safe, outdoor spaces for kids to be kids, and in this case, for a whole community to use an amphitheater, new playgrounds, and more for entertainment and civic gatherings.  I will always fight for rural California, and that means ensuring that our communities receive their fair share of state funds.  Parks are a great return on investment.   That money is vital to improving the everyday quality of life in Soledad, for many generations,” said Senator Caballero.
The Statewide Park Development and Community Revitalization Grant Program is funded through Proposition 68, a bond measure that voters approved in 2018, which generated $254.9 million for the creation of new parks and enhancements of current parks and recreational facilities throughout the state. Out of nearly 500 applications, Soledad is one of sixty-two projects to receive an award.
###
Assemblymember Robert Rivas represents California’s 30th Assembly District, which includes all or portions of the cities and towns of Aromas, Big Sur, Chualar, Gilroy, Greenfield, Gonzales, Hollister, King City, Morgan Hill, Salinas, San Martin, San Juan Bautista, Soledad, Spreckels, and Watsonville.
Senator Anna M. Caballero represents the 12th Senate District, composed of Merced and San Benito Counties, the Salinas Valley, and portions of Fresno, Madera, and Stanislaus Counties.