SACRAMENTO, CA
–
Assemblywoman Sharon Quirk-Silva (D – Fullerton)
in collaboration with California's Arts, Entertainment, and Tourism industries, helped secure funding to bring back tourist to California and support the California Arts.
“As Chair of the
Assembly Committee on Arts, Entertainment, Sports, Tourism, and Internet Media,
I am thankful to have the opportunity to work with leaders in these industries that have been especially hit hard during the pandemic,"
said Assemblywoman Quirk-Silva
. “We have worked collaboratively to advocate for funds needed to ensure that California's Recovery will include funding for our creative and artistic industries, and tourism."
Key Arts and Tourism funding highlights include:
$50 million
for grants to
California Governor’s Office of Business and Economic Development (GoBiz)
to provide grants to small nonprofit
performing arts organizations
up to $75,000
$150 million
to
GoBiz
and the
California Office of Small Business Advocate
for
live events venues and business
, including nonprofits and
minor league sports
$128 million to
California Arts Council
of which, $40 million would go to
Creative Youth Development
, $60 million for the
California Creative Corps Pilot program
, with the remaining funding for local assistance programs and staffing
$50 million
to the
Natural Resources Agency
for
museum program grants
$237.7 million
for
arts and culture investments in local communities
throughout the state including
small businesses and programs
,
dance academies
, s
ymphonies
, and
community reinvestment
funds
$95 million
in one-time tourism marketing funds
“We applaud Assemblywoman Quirk-Silva’s leadership to support the recovery of the arts, culture and creative industries and workforce, said
Julie Baker, Executive Director, Californians for the Arts & California Advocates
. When COVID shut our sector down she chaired an assembly arts committee hearing on reopening arts safely, giving voice to our concerns and looking for concrete ways to solve problems. She was one of our leading legislative supporters for a $1 Billion public investment for our sector. She is a passionate and reliable arts and creativity champion. We look forward to our continued partnership to rebuild the creative sector.”
“California’s travel and hospitality industry is grateful for Gov. Newsom and the Legislature for including $95 million in one-time stimulus funding to jump-start tourism marketing and hasten the recovery of the Golden State’s tourism economy after the devastating Covid-19 pandemic,”
said
Visit California
President & CEO Caroline Beteta.
“California’s tourism industry has provided more than $1 billion to promote the California brand globally over the last 15 years. This year it was faced with going dark, as the pandemic slowed visitation and depleted available marketing funds. The stimulus in the state budget allows those marketing campaigns to continue in California and across the United States for the next year, allowing the industry to reclaim market share and reestablish itself as one of the state’s most reliable job producers. It is truly a game changer. California tourism is lucky to have legislative champions like
Sen. Mike McGuire and Assembly Member Sharon Quirk-Silva
who pushed this stimulus funding from the beginning. They understood the economic benefit of tourism to California, identified the need for stimulus funding at this time and worked overtime to provide it on behalf of all Californians.
“I have advocated to assist our arts, entertainment, sports, and tourism industries, to safely and effectively return back to business, as we know the significant impact they have on businesses, the workforce, and our communities,” said
Assemblywoman Quirk-Silva.
The California Comeback Plan signed into law by Governor Newsom will provide much needed relief to our businesses and those who need it most during these difficult times. This spending plan is a reflection of the true values in California of inclusivity and an opportunity for success for all our small businesses.
For further information or to schedule an interview with
Assemblywoman Sharon Quirk-Silva
, please contact Josef Holper at
(714) 525-6515
.
###