SACRAMENTO
–Today Assemblymember Marc Berman (D-Menlo Park) supported a number of budget bills that highlight the historic nature of the 2021-22 State Budget. In addition to the billions of dollars in critical funding to aid California’s recovery from the COVID-19 pandemic, the budget included funding to establish a statewide Office of School-Based Health, a concept that Assemblymember Berman has championed since 2019, and to support community projects in the 24th Assembly District.
“Today, we strengthened our commitment to California’s recovery by extending the eviction moratorium, expanding rent relief, and approving new stimulus checks to millions of Californians,” said Assemblymember Marc Berman.
“I am also thrilled that we approved funding to establish an Office of School-Based Health within the California Department of Education. I have long advocated for the creation of this office to help K-12 schools take advantage of available federal funds to meet the growing demand for student health and mental health services in our schools. As students and families recover from the COVID-19 pandemic, this office could not be timelier.
“I am also excited to have secured millions of dollars to support the Carter Park Renovation Project in Half Moon Bay and for the acquisition of the Cloverdale Ranch property in San Mateo County. A renovated Carter Park will provide a beautiful gathering and performing arts space for the residents of Half Moon Bay and the Coastside. The acquisition of Cloverdale Ranch will conserve over 6,200 acres of undeveloped land in San Mateo County, an almost 10% increase to the acreage preserved by the Midpeninsula Regional Open Space Trust. These projects will contribute to the vibrancy and connectivity of our communities, and preserve cherished open space for residents to enjoy for decades to come.”
$700,000 for the Office of School-Based Health
Senate Bill 129
includes $700,000 for the California Department of Education to establish an Office of School-Based Health, as advocated for by Assemblymember Berman’s
Assembly Bill 563
this year and
Assembly Bill 1322
in 2019. The Office of School-Based Health will ensure greater access to health care services at elementary, middle, and high school campuses, while drawing down federal funds to support the increase in services provided.
$4.75 million for Carter Park Renovation Project in the City of Half Moon
Senate Bill 129
includes $4.75 million for the Carter Park Renovation Project in the City of Half Moon Bay.
The City’s approved Parks Master Plan identified Carter Park as an underutilized, natural open space tucked away beneath the entrance to historic downtown Main Street. After extensive community outreach, targeted stakeholder groups, and review by the Parks and Recreation Commission, Planning Commission, and City Council, the proposed project includes amphitheater seating, a performing arts stage, a walking trail through the existing redwood trees along Pilarcitos Creek, a picnic area, a playground, and amenities including restrooms. When completed, Carter Park plans to host a variety of performing arts including annual Shakespeare productions, the City’s Summer’s End Music Festival, and other cultural events.
$8 million for Cloverdale Ranch in San Mateo County
The $8 million included in
Senate Bill 129
will allow the Midpeninsula Regional Open Space District to purchase and preserve the Cloverdale Ranch, a regionally significant coastal property, which encompass over 6,200 acres of undeveloped lands in San Mateo County. Cloverdale Ranch, located between the town of Pescadero and the County’s southern border, is characterized by sweeping coastal vistas, coastal terrace prairies and scrub, secluded valleys, marshes and wet meadows, lakes and streams. In addition to important fish species habitat, Cloverdale Ranch has the largest intact coastal terrace prairie habitat in the county and the third largest in the state. It is also home to the federally and state endangered San Francisco garter snake. This funding enables the opportunity to establish an open space preserve, provide access to open space and resource lands that are currently inaccessible, sustain local agriculture, and protect the rural character of California’s ranchlands.
Earlier this year, Assemblymember Berman successfully advocated for $30 million ongoing to establish a basic needs center and hire a basic needs coordinator at every community college campus, as well as a one-time investment of $10 million to establish a common course numbering system for community colleges.
Contact: Kaitlin Curry, (916) 319-2024