Torrance, CA
– Assemblymember Al Muratsuchi (D-Torrance) introduced AB 1502, the Skilled Nursing Facility Ownership and Management Reform Act, which would give the California Department of Public Health (CDPH) stronger authority to prohibit unqualified and unethical owners and operators from owning and operating skilled nursing facilities in the State of California.
"We need to do more to protect seniors living in nursing homes and other residential care facilities," said Assemblymember Muratsuchi. "People die when unscrupulous or unqualified nursing home owners and operators put profits above people, especially during a pandemic. AB 1502 will strengthen the California Department of Public Health's authority to shut down the increasing number of for-profit nursing home chains operating nursing homes without a license."
California's largest nursing home chain, the owner/operator of
Brius Healthcare and other corporations that includes 18 skilled nursing facilities, is operating at least two dozen nursing homes they acquired in 2014, without obtaining appropriate licensing from CDPH. Six of the chain's licensure applications were denied years ago due to horrific conditions in its facilities. Further,
owners of
Gateway Care and Rehabilitation, another serial violator with a long history of licensure denials due to unfitness by CDPH – dating back to 2004 – continues to operate SNFs, including one that is under criminal investigation for a COVID-19 outbreak and the deaths of residents during the pandemic. Yet, CDPH is still allowing these operators to run the facilities while purchasing more nursing homes during the pandemic.
Tragically, the pandemic has magnified the dangers of living in nursing homes when operated by unfit owners. We have placed thousands of resident's lives in the trust of operators who have demonstrated they do not deserve that trust. AB 1502 will stop unlicensed nursing home operators from endangering the lives of residents within their care.
Assemblymember Al Muratsuchi represents California's 66th Assembly District, which includes El Camino Village, Gardena, Harbor City, Harbor Gateway, Hermosa Beach, Lomita, Los Angeles, Manhattan Beach, Palos Verdes Estates, Rancho Palos Verdes, Redondo Beach, Rolling Hills, Rolling Hills Estates, Torrance, and West Carson. Muratsuchi is the Chair of the Joint Legislative Committee on Climate Change Policies and the Assembly Select Committee on Aerospace. He is a member of the Assembly Committees on Environmental Safety and Toxic Materials; Natural Resources; Utilities and Energy; Veterans Affairs; and Water, Parks and Wildlife.
Media Contact:
Kerry Jacob, 310-806-0893