SACRAMENTO
— Assemblymember Tasha Boerner Horvath (D-Encinitas) has been newly appointed by Speaker Anthony Rendon to serve as Assistant Majority Leader for Policy and Research. Boerner Horvath has served on the Speaker’s leadership team as Assistant Majority Whip since she was elected to represent the 76th Assembly District in 2018 and is now advancing into this new role on the leadership team at the start of her second term in office.
“Since first being elected a Member of the California State Assembly, I have made it my mission to help advance thoughtful legislation that not only answers the needs of the communities I serve, but all of California,” said Boerner Horvath. “This new leadership role reflects the philosophy I try to bring to what we do here in Sacramento – working without pride in authorship to craft sound, well-researched policies that help make real peoples’ lives better. I am honored that the Speaker has afforded me this responsibility, and I thank him for this opportunity. I look forward to continuing to work collaboratively with my colleagues to turn good research into effective policy that better serves the people we were all sent here to represent.”
The role of Assistant Majority Leader for Policy and Research was first created in 2019 by Speaker Rendon. It was formerly held by Assemblymember Al Muratsuchi (D-Torrance).
“I’m grateful to Tasha Boerner Horvath for taking on an additional role to help guide the Assembly’s work,” said Assembly Speaker Rendon. “She will bring her strong work ethic and notable passion on the issues to the Policy and Research position. The person and the job are a perfect fit.”
In addition to her appointment as Assistant Majority Leader for Policy and Research, Assemblymember Boerner Horvath has also been newly appointed to the Assembly Committee on Jobs, Economic Development, and the Economy. She will continue serving on Local Government, Communications & Conveyance, Aging & Long-Term Care, Veterans Affairs, the Joint Committee on Legislative Audit, and as Chair of the Select Committee on Sea Level Rise and the California Economy.
###