SACRAMENTO
—Assembly Members Tim Grayson (D-Concord) and Robert Rivas (D-Salinas) today announced that a newly formed Assembly Housing Working Group will host a series of regional roundtables to examine barriers and explore solutions to the state’s housing production and affordability crisis. Organized in coordination with Asm. David Chiu (D-San Francisco), Chair of the Assembly Committee on Housing and Community Development, the discussions—planned for the Bay Area, Central Coast, Central Valley, and Southern California over the next month—will include local experts, policymakers, and a wide variety of housing stakeholders to inform policy ideas that the working group may want to pursue in 2022.
“The impetus for this housing tour is simple: in order to achieve our goal of building needed housing for all Californians at all income levels, we must understand the challenges and opportunities for production that exist across our state,” said Assemblymember Grayson. “I’m excited to join my colleagues in communities up and down California, to engage in thoughtful conversation, and to begin formulating new, innovative solutions to our housing and affordability crisis.”
“The members of the Assembly Housing Working Group understand that California’s housing crisis calls for a boots-on-the-ground approach to understand the barriers and find solutions to increased production and affordable housing,” said Assemblymember Rivas. “I am hopeful that by coming together in each other’s communities, we will gain perspective about the challenges and successes that are both similar and unique to each region. Based on what we learn, we can work to craft a package of legislation for next year that we can all support.”
“Despite the progress we've made in recent years, our housing crisis remains one of the top issues facing our state,” said Assemblymember Chiu (D-San Francisco). “I look forward to speaking directly with Californians about the housing challenges in their communities and working with my colleagues towards comprehensive solutions.”
Assembly Housing Working Group Statewide Housing Tour Itinerary
Sept. 27 – Bay Area (Concord and Oakland)
, Host Offices:  Asm. Grayson, Asm. Wicks
Oct. 4-5 – Central Coast (Salinas, Big Sur, Morgan Hill)
, Host Office:  Asm. Robert Rivas
Oct. 7 – Central Valley (Fresno)
, Host Office:  Asm. Arambula
Oct. 11 – Los Angeles
, Host Office:  Asm. Friedman
Oct. 12 – Inland Empire
, Host Office:  Majority Leader Reyes
Oct. 13 – Orange County
, Host Office:  Asm. Quirk-Silva
Oct. 14 – San Diego
, Host Office:  Asm. Ward
The events will be in-person and invite-only, as space is limited. Members will make themselves available for interviews and/or arrange for press coverage, at the discretion of each host office.
###