REEDLEY, CA
– Today, Assemblymember Dr. Joaquin Arambula (D-Fresno) will present a $1 million check to Reedley College for its Aviation Maintenance Technology and Flight Science programs. Assemblymember Arambula successfully secured the funds in this year’s State budget to help expand job training and career opportunities in the region.
Assemblymember Arambula will be joined by Reedley College President Jerry Buckley; Magdalena Gomez, Vice President of the State Center Community College District Board of Trustees; and other guests for the 10 a.m. announcement today in front of the Aeronautics Building at the college, 995 N. Reed Ave. in Reedley.
Assemblymember Arambula said:
“These unique Reedley College programs are at the forefront of technological advances being made in the fields of aviation maintenance and flight science. As a strong advocate for workforce development, I’m impressed by these programs. Reedley College not only has a distinctive flight training program but has adapted the state-of-the-art skills needed for maintaining cleaner, next-generation aircraft. Both programs create more diverse job training pathways for our students, and this adds another dimension of career opportunities that contribute to the economic growth of the Central Valley.”
Dr. Jerry L. Buckley, President, Reedley College, said:
“This funding will make a tremendous difference for both our Aviation Maintenance Technician program and for Flight Sciences. Dr. Arambula’s generous support will help reduce the cost of these critical programs for students, while providing hands-on experience at our local Reedley Airport. This funding also will reinforce an existing vital partnership between Reedley College and the City of Reedley.”
The instructional leaders for both programs also said they were excited about the State allocation and what it will mean for students.
Jason Asman, Aviation Maintenance Technology Program Instructor, commented:
“The positive impact this funding will have on students of the Aeronautics programs is beyond measure. The funds will significantly enhance the quality and relevance of the training our students will receive as they prepare for a career in aviation maintenance. Students will now be able to complete a portion of their training at Reedley Municipal Airport, allowing tasks such as the operation of jet engines and the taxi of live aircraft to be accomplished. These activities are limited on campus due to the lack of available equipment and space, plus they pose noise and safety concerns. Moving these activities to the airport adds greater capability and provides an enhanced set of learning experiences that will better prepare students for the future work environment.”
John Johnson, Flight Science Program Coordinator, said:
“The $1 million in funding from the State of
California for Reedley College’s Aviation Maintenance Technology and Flight Science programs will improve the quality of those programs immensely. Additionally, the college will be able to significantly lower the cost of flight training to students with the purchase of airplanes since we will not have to pay current airplane leasing costs. That savings will be passed on to students. This cost reduction is the most effective method of increasing access to professional pilot career training for underrepresented and economically challenged residents of the Central San Joaquin Valley.”
The 10 a.m. presentation will be livestreamed on Assemblymember Arambula’s Facebook page.
A map is attached, showing the Aeronautics Building location and Parking Lot J. Assemblymember Arambula, President Buckley, Trustee Gomez, and others will be available to the media after the presentation.
###