SALINAS
– Assemblymember Robert Rivas (D-Salinas) and Senator Anna Caballero (D-Salinas) honor Clinica de Salud del Valle de Salinas (CSVS) as the 2021 California Nonprofit of the Year for their districts.
“I am proud to honor Clinica de Salud del Valle de Salinas as Assembly District 30’s Nonprofit of the Year, for their indispensable efforts to educate and vaccinate farmworkers in our area during the pandemic,” said Assemblymember Rivas. “Last year, our farmworker community faced a public health crisis as it experienced disproportionate exposure to the coronavirus. However, with the efforts of dedicated health professionals like those at CSVS, we have turned a corner. Thank you to Dr. Max Cuevas, CSVS’s CEO, and his incredible team, for helping so many farmworkers stay safe and healthy during these extraordinary times.”
“Clinica de Salud del Valle de Salinas was an invaluable partner throughout the COVID-19 pandemic,” said Senator Caballero. “Dr. Cuevas participated in multiple town hall meetings held by my office in both English and Spanish to educate our vulnerable communities during a time when we knew very little about the virus. The organization was also diligent in collecting and distributing desperately needed PPE for farmworkers and other low-income essential workers. Working in strategic partnership with industry CSVS was able to ensure that thousands of our farmworkers were vaccinated quickly. It is no surprise to me that both Assemblymember Rivas and I selected the same nonprofit to bestow such an award. It simply speaks to their value during a time when our community needed them most, and I am honored to be able to recognize them for their tireless advocacy.”
Since March 2021, Clinica de Salud del Valle de Salinas has vaccinated 48,872 persons, including many of our region’s most vulnerable residents. Their work allowed the Salinas Valley to become a model for effective vaccination efforts in a rural, agricultural area.
“Clinica de Salud del Valle de Salinas’ Board of Directors and staff thank you for recognizing our efforts to make sure that all families have access to COVID-19 testing and vaccines,” said Dr. Cuevas. “The pandemic is not over yet, so we all must continue our effort to protect each other from this dangerous virus by making sure that at least 70% of families are vaccinated. Our organization stands ready and fully committed to reaching this goal.”
As part of this year’s California Nonprofit Day, 109 California state legislators announced their selection of a “Nonprofit of the Year” in their district. The 113 honorees range from nonprofits in health and food banks to nonprofits in music and sports, this annual effort – in its sixth year – creates a way for legislators to recognize an exceptional nonprofit in their district. You can download the complete list of legislators and honorees here.
#
##
Assemblymember Robert Rivas (D-Salinas) represents California’s 30th Assembly District, which includes all or portions of the cities and towns of Aromas, Big Sur, Chualar, Gilroy, Greenfield, Gonzales, Hollister, King City, Morgan Hill, Salinas, San Martin, San Juan Bautista, Soledad, Spreckels, and Watsonville.
Senator Anna M. Caballero represents the 12th Senate District, composed of Merced, Madera and San Benito Counties, and portions of Fresno, Monterey, and Stanislaus Counties.