SACRAMENTO, CA —
Today, Assemblymember Jesse Gabriel (D-Woodland Hills) was appointed Chair of the California State Assembly Committee on Privacy and Consumer Protection. As Chair, Gabriel will help guide policy development for the State Assembly on a wide range of technology and consumer-related issues, including regulation of the Internet and social media companies, protection of personal information, data security, and information technology, as well as false advertising, charitable solicitations, and consumer protection generally. The position was previously held by Assemblymember Edwin Chau (D-Monterey Park).
“I’m honored by this appointment and excited to build on California’s strong record as a global leader in both technology and policy innovation,” said Assemblymember Gabriel. “The Privacy Committee has jurisdiction over many of the most pressing and challenging public policy issues facing our state and nation, including how to best protect consumer privacy in the digital age, fairly regulate online commerce, and oversee social media companies. I look forward to working closely with my colleagues and stakeholders across California to craft public policies that will protect consumers, promote innovation and competitiveness, and strengthen our democracy.”
Both state and federal lawmakers have made privacy and technology-related issues a top priority in recent years. In California, several important privacy measures are currently advancing through the State Legislature, including Assembly Bill (AB) 587 by Assemblymember Gabriel. Known as the
Social Media Transparency and Accountability Act of 2021
, AB 587 aims to shed light on the role of social media in amplifying extreme and dangerous content and driving severe political polarization, and would require leading social media platforms to publicly disclose their efforts to address online hate, disinformation, extremism, harassment, and foreign interference. The bill has enjoyed bipartisan support in Assembly committees and is expected to be heard on the Assembly Floor this week.