REEDLEY, CA
– Assemblymember Dr. Joaquin Arambula (D-Fresno will host a Community Resource Fair in Reedley on Tuesday, September 28, at the Reedley Community Center.
The event will be 9 a.m. to 1 p.m.at the community center, 100 N. East Ave., Reedley, 93654.
The event marks the return of the Community Resource Fairs that Assemblymember Arambula has hosted in the 31st Assembly District since he was elected in 2016. He conducts them in collaboration with cities, agencies, and community-based organizations. The COVID-19 pandemic forced the suspension of these fairs, prompting his office to focus on free COVID-19 testing and vaccinations as well as food distributions.
The Reedley event will be the first of four fairs this fall, operating as one-stop shops for local residents. This year’s events will include free COVID-19 vaccinations as well as services that have been offered in the past. These include free flu shots, free health screenings, free food distribution, and information about education, immigration, employment, legal services, and much more. (
Please note:
flu shots will be offered if available for this particular event.)
COVID-19 safety protocols will be followed at all four events.
Assemblymember Arambula said
: “It’s more important than ever that residents in my district have the ability to access services and information about resources available to them. When people know about these services, they can continue to seek them out and then tell their friends and neighbors. My partners and I want to do what we can to help people lead healthier, better lives.”
The partners for the Reedley event include the City of Reedley; Fresno State Mobile Health Unit; the Fresno Economic Opportunities Commission; Poverello House; Centro La Familia; and more.
The other Community Resource Fairs are scheduled for Firebaugh on Saturday, October 9; at the Fresno Center on Tuesday, October 12; and in Huron on Tuesday, October 19. Previous events have been held in communities such as Sanger, Kerman, Fowler, Mendota, Orange Cove, Parlier, and San Joaquin.
###