Assemblywoman Quirk-Silva Honors the Life of Tommy Lasorda
FULLERTON, CA –Assemblywoman Sharon Quirk-Silva (D – Fullerton) honors Hall of Fame Manager of the Los Angeles Dodgers and Lifelong Fullerton resident, Tommy Lasorda.  Mr. Lasorda, who has passed away at the age of 93, suffered a sudden cardiopulmonary arrest at his home.
Tommy Lasorda, who spent seven decades with the Dodger Organization was famous for his colorful personality and outspoken opinions that made him such a delight to be a fan of during his time as a manager and player in Major League Baseball.  Tommy Lasorda was the second born of five sons, to his loving mother, Carmella and father, Sabatino in Norristown, Pennsylvania. A practicing Roman Catholic, he and his wife, Joan (Jo), were married in 1950 and had moved and resided in Fullerton, California for over 50 years.  A father to two children with his wife, Jo, Tommy acted as father figure to many players and individuals in his life. As a manager of the Los Angeles Dodgers he brought pride to the great city of Los Angeles with two World Series Titles.  Tommy also brought pride to our Country, as manager of the USA Team, winning the Gold Medal in the 2000 Olympic Games.  Regarded by many as baseball's most popular ambassador, Tommy's humanitarianism and spirit of goodwill has made him a legend throughout the world. A distinguished recipient of the Legion of Honor Award, Mr. Lasorda has long been a man of integrity and honor.
“When I was in Junior High School, Tommy Lasorda visited my school to speak to us. It was the first time, I had the opportunity to meet a Baseball Manager and be introduced to the Dodger Organization. Later I had the honor to attend my first Dodger’s game, because of Tommy Lasorda’s generosity to provide an opportunity for kids, such as myself, to go see a game,” said Assemblywoman Quirk-Silva. “That was just the man he was, a generous humanitarian with a boundless enthusiasm. He was a great man who always gave time for those who asked of him.”
Tommy’s passing has left us all for a loss, but his legend lives on.  In honor of Mr. Lasorda’s wonderful contributions to the State of California and the world of baseball, we want to honor his great work and send our deepest condolences to his wife Jo, family, friends, Dodger Organization, and fans.