Assemblymember is author of AB 1395, the California Climate Crisis Act
Torrance, CA –
Statement by Assemblymember Al Muratsuchi, Chair of California's Joint Legislative Committee on Climate Change Policies, on attending the United Nations Climate Change Conference in Glasgow, Scotland next week. He is attending as part of a delegation of California legislators, including Governor Gavin Newsom.
"As Chair of California's Joint Legislative Committee on Climate Change, I will be joining a delegation of California legislators to participate in next week’s United Nations Climate Change Conference in Glasgow, Scotland. California is the world’s fifth largest economy, and, as the Innovation State, we will lead by example to show that you can grow the economy and create jobs, all while transitioning to 100 percent clean energy and clean vehicles.
I will also share my experience in fighting for policy proposals like my Assembly Bill 1395, the California Climate Crisis Act. This bill seeks to establish a roadmap and framework for California getting to carbon neutrality by or before 2045, by reducing emissions by 90 percent, incentivizing natural carbon sinks as well as real, verifiable carbon capture and storage technology, and protecting frontline communities from toxic pollution. California's climate crisis is here and now, with ever worsening wildfires, droughts, extreme heat, and rising sea levels. Glasgow may be the world’s last best hope to avoid a global catastrophe. We must act now to save our planet."
Assemblymember Al Muratsuchi represents California's 66th Assembly District, which includes El Camino Village, Gardena, Harbor City, Harbor Gateway, Hermosa Beach, Lomita, Los Angeles, Manhattan Beach, Palos Verdes Estates, Rancho Palos Verdes, Redondo Beach, Rolling Hills, Rolling Hills Estates, Torrance, and West Carson. Muratsuchi is the Chair of the Joint Legislative Committee on Climate Change Policies and the Assembly Select Committee on Aerospace. He is a member of the Assembly Committees on Environmental Safety and Toxic Materials; Natural Resources; Utilities and Energy; Veterans Affairs; and Water, Parks and Wildlife.
CONTACT:
Kerry Jacob, 310-806-0893