SACRAMENTO
– On Wednesday, February 10, 2021, Assemblywoman Cottie Petrie-Norris, Chair of the Assembly Accountability and Administrative Review Committee, and Assemblymember Freddie Rodriguez, Chair of the Assembly Emergency Management Committee, will be holding a joint oversight hearing to review California’s COVID-19 vaccine distribution strategy. The Legislators will ask the Administration for a detailed update on vaccine distribution efforts, including the work of the state and local governments and their short and long-term plans.
"The COVID-19 vaccine is a light at the end of the tunnel for millions of Californians. But it’s not doing any of us any good sitting on a warehouse shelf,” said
Assemblywoman Petrie-Norris (D-Laguna Beach)
. "While the pace of California’s vaccine rollout has greatly improved, there are a lot of unanswered questions - from legislators, from local government partners and from our constituents. I am looking forward to this update from the Administration on California’s vaccine rollout, and think it’s a great opportunity to clarify goals, expectations and responsibilities so that we can put this pandemic behind us.”
“No Californian has been immune to the impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic and too many have lost their lives and loved ones,” said
Assemblymember Freddie Rodriquez (D-Pomona).
“As the first vaccine doses are being administered into the arms of essential medical workers and seniors, I look forward to hearing from the Administration on their plan for ensuring a safe and equitable distribution to all 58 counties. Our State is in crisis and residents are concerned, we can only move on as quickly as vaccines are administered to our most vulnerable populations.”
Wednesday, February 10, 2021
2 p.m.
State Capitol, Assembly Chamber
To view live, go to:
https://www.assembly.ca.gov/todaysevents
Hearing Agenda
Online
PANELISTS:
Dr. Paul Simon, Chief Science Officer, Los Angeles County, Department of Public Health
Dr. Aimee Sisson, Public Health Officer, Yolo County, Health and Human Services Agency
Dr. Tomás Aragón, Director, California Department of Public Health
Yolanda Richardson, Secretary, California Government Operations Agency
Marta Green, Project Coordinator, Statewide Vaccine Network TPA
Tina Curry, Chief Deputy Director, California Office of Emergency Services
Lori Nezhura, Deputy Director of Planning, California Office of Emergency Services
Maricela Rodriguez, Director of Civic Engagement and Strategic Partnerships, Office of the Governor