ORANGE COUNTY, CA
–
Assemblywoman Sharon Quirk-Silva (D – Fullerton)
is enthusiastic about Governor Newsom’s recent announcement of his new blueprint for the return to Outdoor Activities, including Theme Parks, live performances and Sports with fans in California.  This new blueprint was developed after the persistent effort of Assemblywoman Quirk-Silva with her legislation,
Assembly Bill 420
(AB 420)
Safe Reopening of Theme Parks
.
The Governor’s new guidance provides direction on opening more outdoor activities to support a safe environment for our California residents. The guidelines will apply to theme parks, live performance venues and organized sports, including school and community-sponsored programs and sporting events.
“Californians are having to manage through the pandemic and all the impacts it has had on our everyday lives,”
said Assemblywoman Sharon Quirk-Silva.
“I, along with my colleagues, am excited to get our businesses reopened, our families coming back to theme parks and live performances, and our athletes back to doing what they love.  These new guidelines will provide us a road to reopening and allow Californians to continue in their recovery process.”
The Governor’s new blueprint will establish that Theme Parks are eligible to reopen in the Red Tier beginning April 1, 2021. The capacity will be limited to 15 percent.  In the Orange tier limitation will increase to 25%, and then 35% in the Yellow tier. Furthermore, outdoor sports and live performances with attendees are eligible to begin April 1, 2021. In the Purple tier, capacity will be limited to 100 people or fewer. Advanced reservations will be required and no concession or concourse sales will be allowed. In the Red tier, capacity will be limited to 20 percent. Concession sales will be primarily in-seat with no concourse sales.
Assemblywoman Sharon Quirk-Silva and coauthor, Assemblywoman Suzette Valladares (R – Santa Clarita), are excited for the new guidelines as it is a reflection of the wonderful effort made by their committee and their bill sponsors at the California Attractions & Parks Association and other industry leaders.
###