For Immediate Release
June 23, 2021
Assemblymember Kalra Selects Gardner Health Services as Assembly District 27’s Nonprofit of the Year
SACRAMENTO
– California Assemblymember Ash Kalra (D-San Jose) selects Gardner Health Services as the 2021 Nonprofit of the Year for the 27th Assembly District. Today, June 23rd, 2021 marks California Nonprofits Day and the sixth year of the California Nonprofit of the Year initiative.
For years, Gardner Health Services has provided high quality, comprehensive medical and mental healthcare, including affordable and culturally competent prevention and education, early intervention, treatment and advocacy services. As one of the major networks of community health clinics serving Assembly District 27, Gardner’s service has been instrumental in aiding our most vulnerable communities who may not otherwise have access to affordable health care.
“Community health centers, such as Gardner, have always been relied on to serve the poorest communities” said
Assemblymember Kalra
. “During the COVID-19 Pandemic, Gardner Health Services became crucial in serving communities of color and underserved communities, especially in East San Jose, as disparities in access to quality affordable healthcare became exacerbated”
.
As the cost of living continues to rise here in San Jose and Santa Clara County, our community health clinics become more important than ever to address the growing demand for affordable healthcare. This past year, Gardner offered thousands of free testing and eventually vaccinations to the community at the Mexican Heritage Plaza in the heart of East San Jose. Gardner’s team of committed staff and volunteers worked around the clock to ensure that everyone received the health care they deserved.
“We are truly honored to have been chosen as the Nonprofit of the Year by Assemblymember Ash Kalra. This has been a very challenging year and this award is a tribute to all the organizations, foundations and funding sources who stepped up and collaborated with Gardner Health Services to save the lives of people we love!” said
Reymundo Espinoza, CEO of the Gardner Family Health Network
.
“Nonprofits are a community of stubborn optimists,” explains
Jan Masaoka, CEO of the California Association of Nonprofits (CalNonprofits).
“Our belief that the world can be better – more equitable, more kind – is powerful. Honoring a California Nonprofit of the Year shows that elected officials recognize and celebrate the good work they see nonprofits doing in their districts.”
###
Assemblymember Ash Kalra
represents the 27th District, which encompasses approximately half of San Jose and includes all of downtown. He is the Chair of the Assembly Committee on Labor and Employment and also serves as a member on the Housing and Community Development, Judiciary, Transportation, and Water, Parks, and Wildlife committees. For more information, visit
https://a25.asmdc.org/
.