SACRAMENTO –
Assemblymember Jacqui Irwin (D-Thousand Oaks) announced that 6 bills that she authored have passed the State Legislature and have been sent to the Governor for his signature or veto. The six bills cover a wide range of issues impacting her constituents in the 44
th
Assembly District and across California. They are as follows:
AB 298 – Improving the Board of Accountancy
, will make the licensure process for new accountants more efficient.
AB 488 – Online Charitable Giving Protection
, establishes a first-in-the-nation framework regulating online charitable giving that prioritizes protecting donors and charities.
AB 751 – Online Vital Records Requests
, will permanently authorize County Recorders to accept electronic requests for access to vital records, such as marriage and death certificates, if stringent security requirements are met.
AB 1101 – Safeguarding HOA Finances,
by strengthening insurance and good governance provisions that help combat fraud. These changes will improve compliance and provide greater transparency so that HOA members can be confident their funds are secure.
AB 1280 – Hospice Industry Fraud Prevention
, will reduce fraud in the hospice industry, reining in illegal recruitment schemes and ensuring that patients who are at the end of life receive the care and services they need.
AB 1331 – Statewide Mental Health Crisis Coordinator
, establishes a full time position within the Department of Health Care Services dedicated to coordinating behavioral health crisis services across the state, helping ensure continuity of care.
Detailed information on each of these bills can be found at
https://leginfo.legislature.ca.gov/
“I am proud of the legislative package I advanced through the Assembly and Senate and sent to Governor Newsom’s desk this year. Combined with the strong investments I secured in the State Budget, the 44
th
District can proudly say their voices have been heard in the State Capitol,” shared Assemblymember Irwin. “Despite the fact that the COVID-19 pandemic continues to impact nearly every Californian, our State’s future continues to be bright.  With these bills signed into law, the State Government, my constituents, and all Californians will be better positioned to succeed in our recovering and growing economy. I look forward to working on my two-year legislation over the fall, and introducing another impactful legislative package in January.”
The State Legislature finished its work for the 2021 legislative year on Friday September 10
th
and adjourned for the interim study recess with a scheduled reconvening on January 3
rd
, 2022. The Legislature sent just over 800 bills to the Governor this year. The Governor has until October 11
th
to sign, veto, or allow a bill to become law without his signature.
Assemblymember Jacqui Irwin represents California’s 44th Assembly District, which includes the communities of Camarillo, El Rio, Moorpark, Oxnard, Port Hueneme, Thousand Oaks, and Westlake Village.
Assemblymember Irwin’s website:
http://asmdc.org/irwin