SACRAMENTO –
Today, Assembly Bill 1110, the California Clean Fleet Accelerator Program, by Assemblymember Robert Rivas (D-Hollister) passed the Assembly Committee on Jobs, Economic Development & the Economy with bipartisan support. This legislation will help smaller local government entities navigate and gain access to technical assistance and incentive programs to replace their fossil fuel-powered fleets with
zero-emission vehicles (
ZEVs).
“Transportation emissions is the highest emitter of carbon in our state,” said Asm. Rivas. “If we are serious about tackling climate change, we need to ensure every municipality or local government, regardless of size, has access to zero-emission trucks, school buses, and transit buses, which can cost much less over time to own and operate than older, gas-guzzling vehicles. Small and rural cities, school districts, and transit operators deserve access to the same kinds of technical assistance, financing options and cost savings that the state and larger entities currently enjoy. This benefits everyone.”
The California Clean Fleet Accelerator Program has three primary functions:
It provides technical assistance to local school districts, small government entities, and other public entities to adopt ZEV fleets
It helps reduce the purchase price of clean trucks and buses by streamlining bulk purchase orders for multiple entities at a time,
It gives schools, towns, and small transit agencies access to low cost financing so they can start saving money right away by upgrading their oldest and dirtiest vehicles.
“There is an urgent need to help small and rural towns, schools, and transit operators save money while also gaining access to clean vehicles,” said David Weiskopf, Senior Policy Advisor for NextGen, which is the sponsor of AB 1110. “This bill responds to that need and will bring the same kind of tools that are available to larger cities and county governments to the rest of the state’s public entities.”
The passage of AB 1110 comes a day after the
EPA announced
that California can continue to set their own pollution standards for cars and SUVs. This legislation is in line with the State’s pursuit to reduce the use of fossil fuel vehicles in order to tackle carbon emissions. The bill is now headed to the Assembly Appropriations Committee.