SACRAMENTO
–
On Monday, October 25
, 2021, as Chair of the Assembly Accountability and Administrative Review Committee, Assemblywoman Cottie Petrie-Norris
is convening a Joint
Oversight Hearing with the Budget Subcommittee No. 4 on State Administration. The legislators will ask California’s Employment Development Department (EDD) questions about
the Unemployment Insurance claims backlog as well as the status of implementing recommended reforms by the State Auditor
.
“Since the onset of the pandemic, Californians in desperate straits have suffered the consequences of EDD’s failures,” said
Assemblywoman Cottie Petrie-Norris (D-Laguna Beach).
“Earlier this year, the State Auditor confirmed the myriad deficiencies at the agency and provided critical recommendations for improvement. Monday’s hearing will provide us with an update on the progress made by the department and an opportunity to determine appropriate next steps to ensure taxpayer dollars are not being wasted.”
“The pandemic has clearly demonstrated that safety net programs like EDD have needed long overdue structural changes,” said
Assemblywoman Wendy Carrillo, Chair, Budget Subcommittee #4 on State Administration (D-51, Los Angeles).
“This is the fifth hearing the Assembly has convened and we will hold as many as necessary to ensure the Department is accountable to the people of this state. From system modernization efforts, fraud prevention, Bank of America debit card issues, and language barriers, EDD has had to find short term solutions to address demands and pivot to long term solutions that ultimately meet the concerns of the state auditor and the very real lived experiences of Californians who have waited months to receive aid. No Californian should have to fall through the gaping holes of a safety net designed to ensure economic security. The reality is, if California is to boast about being the 5th largest economy in the world, our state’s technology should be reflective of that. The Assembly is looking for EDD solutions that help our state, not more excuses of why it can’t or hasn’t been done.”
Monday, October 25
, 2021
11
a.m.
State Capitol,
Room 4202
To view live, go to:
https://www.assembly.ca.gov/todaysevents
Hearing Agenda
Online
PANELISTS:
Elaine Howle, California State Auditor
Bob Harris, Audit Principal, State Auditor’s Office
Rita Saenz, Director, EDD
Carol Williams, Chief Deputy Director, Operations, EDD
Nancy Farias, Chief Deputy Director, External Affairs, Legislation and Policy, EDD
Kevin Matulich, Deputy Director of Legislative Affairs, EDD
Brian Uhler, Deputy Legislative Analyst, Legislative Analyst’s Office
Danielle Brandon, Principal, Department of Finance
Patrick Toppin, Analyst, Department of Finance