ORANGE COUNTY, CA
–
Assemblywoman Sharon Quirk-Silva (D – Fullerton)
is delighted to announce
North Orange County Chamber of Commerce
President and CEO, Theresa Harvey as the 65
th
Assembly District’s 2021 Woman of the Year.
Theresa Harvey has served as President and CEO of
North Orange County Chamber of Commerce
(the Chamber) since 2005. Throughout her tenure, Theresa has developed core programs focused on providing resources to help businesses grow and create new jobs throughout Orange County. Under her leadership the Chamber has prioritized issues and policies that affect businesses at the local level becoming a proactive force in the legislative and policy-making arena and a valuable resource for businesses.
“I am excited to honor my good friend Theresa Harvey as our 65
th
Assembly District 2021 Woman of the Year,” said
Assemblywoman Sharon Quirk-Silva
. “Theresa’s continued partnerships with our various businesses, educators, and government officials has created a wonderful business community that highlights both local and national business interests.  Her efforts are truly appreciated by our entire Orange County Workforce and she is well-deserving of this award.”
Theresa, a graduate of
California State University, Fullerton (CSUF
), has been inducted into the CSUF’s Department of Communications Wall of Fame and has twice served as president of the CSUF Alumni Association. Among her many accomplishments, she has also recently been recognized by
CSUF
as one of their 50 Women of Distinction, a recipient of
Fullerton College
President’s Award: Business Woman of the Year
and former honoree of
YWCA of North Orange County’s
Business Woman of the Year, and in 2015 she was distinguished as one of the Women to Watch by the
California Women’s Leadership Association
.
Furthermore, Theresa’s talents extend beyond the business sector.  An active performer, Harvey plays bassoon in the Fullerton Community Band, Symphony Irvine, So Cal Philharmonic, and Golden West Pops. She resides in the City of Fullerton where she raised her two children.
###