FULLERTON, CA
–
Assemblywoman Sharon Quirk-Silva (D – Fullerton)
presented her legislative package addressing housing and homelessness in Assembly policy committees.  All of the bills have passed, with most receiving bi-partisan support.
“The impacts of the pandemic have been felt by all Californians.  I wanted to have my housing and homelessness legislation reflect these hardships surrounding the continued evolving challenges for many of our residents. I believe that my legislation will assist our most vulnerable community members by providing essential changes and security for our residents,”
said Assemblywoman Quirk-Silva
. “As a life-long resident of Orange County I have seen the dire effects of homelessness and how the need for affordable housing is driving many of our younger residents to leave. My goal is to have my legislation continue to make a difference in the lives of those here in Assembly District 65.”
Housing and Homelessness Legislation Presented by Assemblywoman Quirk-Silva
AB 362 The Shelter Operators Accountability
creates a set of minimum habitability standards for homeless shelters and makes shelters with specified code enforcement violations, ineligible for state and federal homelessness funding. The bill successfully passed out the Assembly Committee on Housing and Community Development and now heads to the Assembly Committee on Appropriations.
AB 790 PACE Elder Justice
clarifies that existing protections for senior citizens from door-to-door sales for home improvement financing includes financing under the Property Assessed Clean Energy (PACE) program. This bill passed out of the Assembly Judiciary Committee and now heads to the Assembly Floor for its final vote before it advances to the Senate.
AB 874 the PACE Foreclosure Prevention:
would help families throughout the state avoid foreclosure by expanding access to the existing $10 million PACE Loss Reserve Fund. The bill
passed out of Assembly Banking and Finance and now heads to the Assembly Committee on Appropriations.
AB 978: Mobile Home Rent Stabilization
creates rent stabilization and protections for mobile home owners who rent the land their home sits on as well as for anyone who rents a mobile home. The bill passed out of the Assembly Committee on Housing and Community Development and now heads to the Assembly Floor for its final vote before it advances to the Senate.
AB 1017 Right to Restrooms Act
of 2021
requires local governments to do an inventory of public restrooms that are available to the homeless population in their respective jurisdictions. The bill passed out of the Assembly Local Government Committee and now heads to the Assembly Committee on Appropriations.
AB 1090 the Masterplan on Homeownership
will allow our State to develop a Legislative Task Force on the California Master Plan on Homeownership which
would
consider and evaluate current impediments to home ownership for all Californians.
The bill passed out the Assembly Committee on Housing and Community Development and now heads to the Assembly Committee on Appropriation.
As the Chair of the Assembly Select Committee on Orange County Chronic Homelessness and Mental Health Services, Assemblywoman Sharon Quirk-Silva continues to explore common sense solutions to the ever developing challenges of housing and homelessness in California.
For further details and information please visit our website at
a67.asmdc.org.
###