Assemblymember Quirk-Silva Urges Governor Newsom to Reopen Theme Parks
Sacramento, CA
-
Assemblymember Sharon Quirk-Silva
(D – Orange County), Chair of the Arts, Entertainment, Sports, Tourism, and Internet Media Committee, introduced Assembly Bill 420 (AB 420),
Safe Theme Park Reopening
, on February 4, 2021 and continues to work tirelessly in her efforts to help our Theme Parks return back to business and create a safe pathway to recovery.
AB 420 would treat large and small theme parks equally under the industry guidance tier structure, by expressing the intent of the Legislature to Governor Newsom to adjust the COVID-19 Industry Guidance for Amusement and Theme Parks document and place all amusement parks under the same Moderate – Orange Tier, as opposed to the Minimal – Yellow Tier.
“It is time to get our Theme Park employees back to work and our businesses into recovery with the help of the tourism industry,” said
Assemblywoman Sharon Quirk-Silva.
“I urge Governor Newsom to take swift action in creating the proper steps to allow our Theme Parks to reopen safely and as soon as possible.”
Since the introduction of AB 420, Orange County Delegate members
Assemblymember Cottie Petrie-Norris
(D – Laguna Beach) and
Assemblymember Tom Daly
(D – Anaheim) have both joined in support of the legislation. In addition the Anaheim City Council and Los Angeles Board of Supervisors have drafted resolutions and voted in support of AB 420, this bill would alter the reopening guidelines for theme parks.  Along with the consistent support of many organizations, the Safe Theme Park Reopening Bill, remains a positive legislative interest for our tourism and business industry.
As we review the recent data that displays a sharp decline in COVID-19 positive tests and an increase of our vaccine distributions being issued throughout the state, the numbers conclude that California is prepared for the safe reopening guidelines.  There are thousands of employees, and guest waiting for them parks to reopen safely.  The next step for Assembly Bill 420 is to be reviewed by the Assembly Arts, Entertainment, Sports, Tourism and Internet Media Committee.
For more information about Assemblywoman Quirk-Silva Assembly Bills please visit
a67.asmdc.org
.