SACRAMENTO
— Assemblymember Tasha Boerner Horvath issued the following statement today after passage of a package of budget bills building on the framework passed on June 14th.
“Years of prudent savings and smart investments over this past year to protect our small businesses and help people weather the worst effects from the pandemic has left California well-positioned not only continue our recovery, but also put a healthy down-payment on the future of our state — including historic commitments to our children's education and the fight against climate change. This moment also provides us with the opportunity to invest in infrastructure and the betterment of our communities, and while several key spending priorities remain to be worked out, the budget plan sent to the Governor today includes:
$1.5 billion in additional relief grants for businesses and non-profits to keep local economies recovering.
An unprecedented investment in our K-12 students — $21,000 per pupil, per year.
Funding for Universal Transitional Kindergarten statewide.
200,000 new childcare slots statewide.
Record $3.7 billion investment in wildfire prevention, drought mitigation, and key climate resiliency initiatives.
$500 million for Active Transportation Programs to help communities make sustainability a priority in their transportation infrastructure.
$2 billion in funds to combat homelessness, with strict accountability for the use of these funds.
$180 million to boost California resident enrollment in the UC and CSU systems, with a program to increase the number of California resident slots at UC Berkeley, UC San Diego, and UCLA to 82%.
Assistance to the Intellectually and Developmentally Delayed (IDD) community, including unfreezing IDD provider rates and a one-time $10.5 million to help IDD facilities recovering from the pandemic.
$4 billion for innovative behavioral health system to support children and teens transitioning out of the pandemic.
Restructuring the Department of Toxic Substances Control — including funding — to ensure polluters pay their fair share and allow California to better protect against future environmental disasters.
I'm also very pleased to see many of the funding priorities I advocated for, especially projects benefitting our North County communities, were included in this agreement:
Over $35 million for the Beach Restoration Fund statewide, a portion of which can be used for $11 million in sand replenishment projects in Encinitas.
$10 million for an e-bike purchase incentive program to help encourage more people to replace some of those car trips with a more sustainable mode of transportation, including up to 10% for e-bike education and training.
$5 million to replace the Old Taylor Street Fire Station in Vista.
$3.5 million for the Civic Center Solar Project in Vista.
$660,000 for the Brooks Street Pool Rehabilitation in the City of Oceanside.
$600,000 for Brengle Terrace Park Well in the City of Vista.
$2.5 million I requested to boost research into coastal erosion and initiate development of an early warning system for bluff collapses.
As a mother of two, I'm encouraged by the strong commitments we are making in this budget to our children's future – both in terms of their education and a more sustainable future — while also maintaining our focus on California’s continuing economic recovery.  I look forward with optimism to the Governor’s final approval and signature on these bills.
###