COSTA MESA – On Thursday, December 16, 2021, Assemblywoman Cottie Petrie-Norris will present a check for $8 million dollars from the State to support the purchase of one of the last remaining parcels of privately owned land along the Southern California coast. The Trust for Public Land plans to conserve Banning Ranch by converting the 385-acre parcel of land into a public park and nature preserve. The new park and preserve will provide access to open space for nearly 9 million Californians who live within an hour drive of Banning Ranch. This project will cultivate a model for low-carbon, climate-resilient coastal protection, while safeguarding sensitive habitat and wildlife.
“Forever protecting Banning Ranch is a once-in-a-generation opportunity,” said Assemblywoman Cottie Petrie-Norris (D-Laguna Beach), whose district includes the property. “This project will restore vital coastal wetlands, provide unparalleled coastal access for surrounding underserved communities and preserve this jewel for all Southern Californians to enjoy.”
By conserving one of the largest privately held coastal wetland area in California, the Banning Ranch Park and Preserve will make huge strides towards achieving the state’s climate change resiliency goals by improving the areas adaptability to sea level rise, reducing the oil footprint by over 90%, and accelerating the natural removal of carbon in the environment.
“Banning Ranch is an unprecedented opportunity to promote park access for diverse disadvantaged communities, honor Native American cultural heritage, provide educational and recreational programs, protect sensitive habitat and wildlife species, and restore coastal wetlands to help battle climate change,” said President of Banning Ranch Conservancy, Terry Welsh, MD.
Event Participants:
Assemblywoman Cottie Petrie-Norris
Guillermo Rodriguez, CA State Director, The Trust for Public Land
Terry Welsh, President of  the Banning Ranch Conservancy
Hon. Katrina Foley, Supervisor 2nd District, OC
Arlis Reynolds, City Council 5th District, Costa Mesa
Thursday, December 16, 2021
Banning Check Presentation
12:30 p.m.
Banning Ranch
1080 W. 17th St.  Costa Mesa, California