The County of Orange has received funding from the State of California to support the County’s Be Well mental health initiative along with funding for data integration in the upcoming year.
Assemblymember Cottie Petrie-Norris (D-Laguna Beach) secured $5 million dollars from this year’s state budget for a second Be Well Campus service location to be built in the City of Irvine.
Resources provided will include clinical services as well as residential services for mental illness and substance use to treat both adults and youth. The County of Orange is dedicated to educating the community and providing access to services by establishing multiple service locations to address increased demand for mental health and substance use disorder services.
“Mental illness has touched all our lives. We all know someone who has battled these demons,” said Assemblywoman Cottie Petrie-Norris. “By securing state funding for a second Orange County BeWell mental health center we are streamlining resources to provide our community proven care to address the underlying issues of mental illness and substance abuse. In this public-private partnership we can act now to save lives and heal our communities.”
The Orange County delegation of legislators also secured $2 million dollars to invest in a system of care data integration for care coordination. Currently the County operates five different systems of care and programs across various departments including health care, behavioral health, community corrections, housing and benefits and support services. To most effectively and efficiently coordinate care and treatment of vulnerable residents who are consistently crossing multiple systems of care, the County is developing a software solution for a coordinated data-sharing platform allowing information sharing among service providers, County departments and external stakeholders.
“The shared vision and the shared commitment to actualize the vision remains. Orange County is creating a world-class system of mental health care for all residents, and we are doing it today. We are grateful to the many elected leaders and so many in our community joining together to make this vision a reality,” said Richard Afable M.D., M.P.H., President and Board Chair, MindOC / Be Well Orange County.