SACRAMENTO, CA –
On July 13th, 2021, Assemblymember Aguiar-Curry (D-Winters) and Senator Lena A. Gonzalez (D-Long Beach) released the following statement in response to the newly announced agreement reached by Governor Newsom and Legislative Leaders on the broadband trailer bill, AB/SB 156, that will expand 21st century high-speed broadband infrastructure to help close the digital divide and meet connectivity needs for more California businesses and families.
“This broadband deployment budget bill will have an enormous impact on the lives of all Californians,”
said Cecilia Aguiar-Curry (D-Winters).
“In partnership with my colleague Senator Gonzalez, we have highlighted the critical need to modernize our state’s broadband policy and programs, and to commit long-term funding to guarantee internet connectivity for all California communities, rural and urban. I am immensely proud that our efforts have contributed to a budget deal between Governor Newsom, Pro Tem Atkins and Speaker Rendon to provide a generational $6 billion investment in broadband infrastructure. Modern, adaptable technology in every corner of our State will provide access to education and job training, health care, and the digital economy. Passage of AB 14 and SB 4 this year is the next essential step in providing a historic policy and funding package to lead California into the future.”
“This historic broadband budget bill is great news to celebrate! It invests in an essential backbone infrastructure that will help California achieve accessible and affordable Broadband for All and also takes critical steps toward equity by prioritizing unserved and underserved areas in both rural and urban communities throughout our state,”
said Senator Lena A. Gonzalez (D-Long Beach).
Overall, this budget bill is one we can be proud of, that represents the values of our state and that will provide a strong foundation through which we can accomplish much more this legislative session to help close the digital divide—because our work does not end here. Now, we must pass legislation to provide longterm, continuous funding for high-speed broadband infrastructure, to re-affirm the prioritization of equitable broadband infrastructure deployment projects and to ensure we have a comprehensive broadband package this legislative session to successfully address the digital divide once and for all.”
Aguiar-Curry represents the 4th Assembly District, which includes all of Lake and Napa Counties, parts of Colusa, Solano and Sonoma Counties, and all of Yolo County except West Sacramento. www.asm.ca.gov/aguiar-curry
Senator Gonzalez represents the 33rd Senate District, which includes the City of Long Beach and portions of South Los Angeles and Southeast Los Angeles including the cities of Bell, Bell Gardens, Cudahy, Huntington Park, Lakewood, Lynwood, Maywood, Paramount, Signal Hill, and South Gate. Senator Gonzalez lives in Long Beach with her husband Adam and three sons.