SACRAMENTO – Legislation to expand restoration along the California coast, authored by Assemblywoman Cottie Petrie-Norris, passed the State Assembly’s Water, Parks and Wildlife Committee with unanimous support. AB 63 will allow for restoration activities in marine conservation areas, which play an essential role in the fight against the effects of climate change and human impacts like oil spills and overfishing.
“Coastal restoration is a vital part of our strategy to mitigate the impacts of the climate crisis, but leading marine conservation experts have been stymied by bureaucratic hurdles,” said Assemblywoman Cottie Petrie-Norris (D-Laguna Beach). “AB 63 will cut green tape, support habitat restoration and protect the California coast.”
California’s coastal waters are home to animals and plants that play a critical role in the biodiversity needed to sustain a healthy ocean and planet. California’s iconic kelp forests have experienced a steep decline in recent years and are in desperate need of restoration. According to UC San Diego, 90% of bull kelp has been lost due to rising sea temperatures in Northern California.
“Get Inspired has been dedicated to ocean restoration projects since 2009,” said AB 63 Sponsor Nancy Caruso, Marine Biologist and Founder of Get Inspired, Inc. “We have been restoring the kelp forests and other species that are in decline with the help of thousands of students and volunteers. We are so grateful for the support of Assemblywoman Petrie-Norris, her work for the ocean and our environment is tireless and appreciated.”
By permitting restoration in marine conservation areas; NGOs, Universities and local conservation groups will be able to help to request permission from the designated authority to restore marine life in these areas.
AB 63 is supported by American Cetacean Society-Orange County, Blue Endeavors, California Aquaculture Association, California Watershed Network, Get Inspired, Inc., HoldFast Aquaculture LLC, Ocean Defenders Alliance, One World One Ocean Campaign, Santa Monica-Malibu Unified School District, Save Our Shores, Sierra Club California, Spark Joy Foundation and Wholly H2O.
AB 63 will be heard in the Assembly Committee on Appropriations later this Spring.