SACRAMENTO
— Assemblywoman Jacqui Irwin (D- Thousand Oaks) has been re-appointed the Chair of the Select Committee on Cybersecurity by California State Assembly Speaker Anthony Rendon. This Committee is dedicated to the state’s cybersecurity preparedness, and explores other important aspects of information security including “internet of things” minimum security and ensuring there is an adequate education and workforce pipeline for the industry.
“This past year we’ve seen an increase in high profile cyberattacks on both private sector firms and federal, state, and local governments,” said Assemblywoman Jacqui Irwin, who is also Chair of the National Conference of State Legislatures’ Task Force on Cybersecurity.  “Cyberattacks occur without warning, remain undetected for far too long, and often target victims without a clear motive.  It’s not a matter of ‘if,’ it’s a matter of ‘when.’  As Chair of this committee my goal is to build on our past successes and continue to make Californians less vulnerable to cyberattacks.”
This will be the seventh year that Assemblywoman Irwin has been the Chair of the Select Committee on Cybersecurity.  Past work of the select committee includes oversight of several state government agencies and programs, informational hearings for small businesses and individuals,  and has resulted in numerous pieces of legislation including: mandating cybersecurity assessments of state departments, protecting voter registration records, requiring minimum security standards for “smart” devices, and reporting on state cybersecurity spending.
The following Assemblymembers have been appointed to the Select Committee on Cybersecurity: Rebecca Bauer-Kahan, Marc Berman, Ed Chau, David Chiu, Jim Cooper, Megan Dahle, Heath Flora, Bill Quirk, Luz Rivas, and Carlos Villapudua.
Assemblymember Jacqui Irwin represents California’s 44th Assembly District, which includes the communities of Camarillo, Moorpark, Oak Park, Oxnard, Port Hueneme,Thousand Oaks, and Westlake Village.
###