IRVINE – Assemblywoman Cottie Petrie-Norris has named five Nonprofits of Distinction for 2021: Power of One Foundation (Costa Mesa), Wetlands and Wildlife Care Center (Huntington Beach), Miracles for Kids (Irvine), Age Well (Laguna Woods) and Project Self Sufficiency (Newport Beach).
Nonprofit of Distinction is an annual recognition ceremony held locally following California Nonprofits Day in June. Community members are invited to nominate nonprofit organizations that have shown extraordinary work, service and compassion in our communities.
“I am pleased to be able to honor five incredible local nonprofits this year,” said Assemblywoman Cottie Petrie-Norris (D-Laguna Beach). “The last year and a half have demonstrated just how essential nonprofit organizations are to the health, safety and welfare of our community. We are fortunate to have hundreds of nonprofit organizations serving the various needs of the people of Orange County.”
The Assemblywoman made the following statements about the Nonprofits of Distinction:
Power of One Foundation (Costa Mesa)
“Providing basic necessities for all members of our community has become even more essential during the past year and a half, and the Power of One Foundation has played a crucial role assisting those who needed it most during the COVID-19 pandemic. The Power of One Foundation has hosted food distributions and provided countless residents with essential household materials for everyday life.”
Wetlands and Wildlife Care Center (Huntington Beach)
“Rehabilitating local wildlife is only part of the Wetlands and Wildlife Care Center’s mission. The center is dedicated to educating members of the public about human impact on the natural environment, and how to protect our precious native wildlife for the benefit of future generations. The Wetlands and Wildlife Care Center does incredible work rescuing, rehabilitating and releasing wildlife throughout Southern California.”
Miracles for Kids (Irvine)
“When families are hit with the devastating news of an ill child, Miracles for Kids steps in to help them get back on their feet. Miracles for Kids supports families by paying bills, providing housing, healing therapies and supplying food and clothing. The wide range of services provided by Miracles for Kids ensures that families can focus solely on helping their child beat cancer.”
Age Well (Laguna Woods)
“Many seniors felt isolated during the pandemic. Age Well innovated and adapted by hosting online programming for seniors, ensuring that both their physical and mental health were supported through music, entertainment and physical fitness classes. Age Well not only continued to support the independence of seniors in our community through programs such as Meals on Wheels, but they also drove seniors to and from life-saving vaccination appointments.”
Project Self-Sufficiency (Newport Beach)
“For many single parents getting a college education can seem daunting if not impossible. Project Self Sufficiency does incredible work to ensure that single parents are able to achieve their academic goals and economic self-reliance. The resources available at Project Self Sufficiency assist students with anything from childcare to professional development opportunities.”
This year more nominations were received than ever before for the 74th Assembly District. These five nonprofit organizations will be recognized in a special virtual ceremony on July 29, 2021, at 5:00 p.m. via Assemblywoman Cottie Petrie-Norris’ Facebook Page. Click here to watch:
https://www.facebook.com/AssemblywomanCPN/live