Torrance, CA –
Assemblymember Al Muratsuchi (D-Torrance) issued the following statement on the Senate's failure to pass AB 1395, the California Climate Crisis Act, on September 10, 2021, the last day of this year's legislative session:
"Big Oil and their allies killed the California Climate Crisis Act on the Senate floor. While California burns with wildfires, suffers from droughts and extreme heat, and prepares for billions in coastal property damage from sea level rise, the Senate failed to pass this critical bill to establish a roadmap to reach carbon neutrality on or before 2045. President Biden has highlighted the recent United Nations Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change report as a Code Red warning for humanity, yet the California Legislature is failing to act with urgency on the climate crisis unfolding all around us. AB 1395 would provide a roadmap to guide our state to carbon neutrality, create clean energy jobs, and cut down on pollution especially in frontline communities of color. While the Senate's failure to pass AB 1395 was a major disappointment, I look forward to continuing our fight to save our planet."
AB 1395 would codify California's commitment to reach statewide net-zero greenhouse gas emissions by or before 2045; reduce statewide emissions by 90 percent of 1990 levels through a combination of direct emission reductions, carbon capture, removal and storage technologies, and natural carbon sinks; and establish standards and procedures to ensure that carbon capture, removal and storage technologies provide real, measurable, and permanent carbon reduction.
The Senate vote on AB 1395 was 14 ayes and 12 noes, with 12 Democrats not voting and 2 excused absences. A motion for the bill's reconsideration was granted, allowing the bill to continue to be debated next year.
Assemblymember Al Muratsuchi represents California's 66th Assembly District, which includes El Camino Village, Gardena, Harbor City, Harbor Gateway, Hermosa Beach, Lomita, Los Angeles, Manhattan Beach, Palos Verdes Estates, Rancho Palos Verdes, Redondo Beach, Rolling Hills, Rolling Hills Estates, Torrance, and West Carson. Muratsuchi is the Chair of the Joint Legislative Committee on Climate Change Policies and the Assembly Select Committee on Aerospace. He is a member of the Assembly Committees on Environmental Safety and Toxic Materials; Natural Resources; Utilities and Energy; Veterans Affairs; and Water, Parks and Wildlife.
Media Contact:
Kerry Jacob, 310-806-0893