COSTA MESA
– On Monday, November 15, 2021, as Chair of the
Assembly’s Select Committee on the Orange County Oil Spill
,
Assemblywoman Cottie Petrie-Norris
is convening a Joint Oversight Hearing with the Assembly Natural Resources and Assembly Budget Subcommittee No. 3 on Climate Crisis, Resources, Energy, and Transportation. The Select Committee will receive updates on the oil spill response and recovery efforts from a number of panelists and experts.  Legislators will explore how and if California law, regulations and protocols need to be updated based on the lessons from this disaster.
“The bottom line is that this was a preventable disaster,” said
Assemblywoman Cottie Petrie-Norris (D-Laguna Beach).
“The goal of this hearing is threefold: get to the bottom of what happened, ensure that the responsible party is held fully accountable for the toll on our community, and identify the steps needed to ensure that an environmental disaster like this does not occur again on our watch.”
“Last month, Southern California’s pristine coastline found itself a victim of the oil and gas industry yet again when oil spilled into the waters off the shores of Huntington Beach,” said
Assemblywoman Luz Rivas (D-San Fernando Valley)
. “These oil spills don’t just wreak havoc on our delicate coastal ecosystem – they significantly impact tourism related jobs, and local, state, and federal revenues. I want to thank Assemblywoman Cottie Petrie-Norris for her leadership in organizing this oversight hearing so that we can evaluate what the state can do to prevent future environmental tragedies from happening.”
“While we await the results of the investigations that are underway, this oversight hearing serves as an important opportunity for the Select Committee to hear from experts on clean-up efforts, initial takeaways, and potential policy solutions as we recover from the spill,” said
Assemblymember Richard Bloom (D-Santa Monica).
Monday, November 15, 2021
10:00 a.m. – 1:00 p.m.
Coast Community College District, Board Room
1370 Adams Ave, Costa Mesa, CA 92626
To view live, go to:
https://www.assembly.ca.gov/todaysevents
Hearing
Agenda Online
& Below