FRESNO, CA
– Assemblymember Dr. Joaquin Arambula (D-Fresno) on Thursday, October 7, will hold a press conference with City of Fresno leaders to focus on the need for affordable housing in the Fresno region and throughout California.
Other speakers will include Fresno Mayor Jerry Dyer, Fresno Councilmember Miguel Arias, and members of the State Assembly.
The news conference will start at 10 a.m. in front of Hotel Fresno, 1241 Broadway Plaza in Fresno.
The media is invited to arrive at 9:30 a.m. (to 9:50 a.m.) for an inside look at how the historic but neglected structure is being renovated into an apartment building. There won’t be an opportunity to do so after the news conference.
Once the Hotel Fresno event is over, a housing tour will visit several sites in Fresno. The tour is part of the
Assembly Housing Work Group sessions being conducted throughout California. Assemblymembers are discussing issues, such as affordable housing and homelessness, with local stakeholders as they consider ideas and policies to pursue in the next State Legislative year.
(Note: the media is invited to follow the tour; a map is provided.)
Assemblymembers scheduled to attend October 7 include Tim Grayson (D-Concord), Buffy Wicks (D-Oakland), Robert Rivas (D-Salinas), and Mia Bonta (D-Alameda).They will be part of a roundtable discussion in the afternoon that will include Tyrone Roderick Williams, the newly appointed CEO of the Fresno Housing Authority. Williams will begin in his new job on November 1. He has more than 25 years of experience in urban revitalization and most recently served as Deputy Executive Director at the Sacramento Housing and Redevelopment Agency.
Assemblymember Arambula said of the October 7 event
: “Homelessness is the moral crisis of our times, and the need for affordable housing is one of the biggest challenges facing Fresno and California. It’s why Governor Newsom and the State Legislature are investing $22 billion to address housing and homelessness issues.
“In Fresno, we unfortunately see the terrible impacts of the crisis. Fresno is the fifth-largest city in California and has one of the hottest housing markets in the state. But the ugly irony is that too many of our people can’t afford to buy homes in our city. And, in the worst situations, they are losing their homes and ending up on the streets. We must find ways to increase production without pricing people out of the market or redlining communities. We must make sure every family and future generations have the opportunity to own a home.”
Mayor Dyer commented
: “Here in Fresno – a city where, by California standards, housing is considered
affordable – we have a shortage of affordable homes. My One Fresno vision outlined six mayoral priorities, and tops on that list was supporting the development of affordable housing options for all. We must find ways to permanently house our homeless, keep those on the edge from slipping into homelessness, and provide a pathway to the American Dream of home ownership. Anything short of that is unacceptable.”
Councilmember Arias said
: “Fresno is in the epicenter of California’s housing crisis with record rent increases. It is urgent we give families in Fresno the housing security they deserve. This Thursday, State legislators will be able to see firsthand the impact of state-funded housing projects. We remain committed to aggressively taking on this housing crisis and will continue to rely on the State’s financial investment as we prioritize other shovel-ready
projects.”
Attached are two maps for the event. One is the location of the news conference; the other is for the tour sites. Also, please note, closed-toe shoes must be worn because the tour is visiting active construction sites.
###