CARLSBAD
—
Assemblymember Tasha Boerner Horvath (D-Encinitas) today announced the honorees for the 2021 Veteran and Servicmember Awards for the 76th Assembly District. Each year Assemblymember Boerner Horvath honors the outstanding members of our military community with the Veteran and Service Member Awards. Through a community nomination process, this year’s nominees were chosen because of their exemplary service to the people of Camp Pendleton, Carlsbad, Encinitas, Oceanside, and Vista.
“North County is home to a vibrant and diverse military-friendly community,” said Assemblymember Boerner Horvath. “After more than a year of being apart, I am proud that we can finally come together to honor the heroism and service of our military community on the eve of Veterans Day.”
The recipients by category are as follows:
Distinguished Veteran Volunteer of the Year
: Darcy Irwin Wolfe
Excellence in Advocacy
: Patricia “Trish” Halsey-Munroe
Excellence in Mentorship
: Gunnery Sergeant Vann Black, Jr.
Excellence in Entrepreneurship
: All Star Vets
Excellence in Arts
: Reginald Green
Military Spouse of the Year
: Laura Torres
Assemblymember Boerner Horvath will be hosting a public in-person awards ceremony with the honorees and their families at the Veterans Association of North County Resource Center on Wednesday, November 10, 2021, from 2:00 p.m. – 4:00 p.m. A live stream of the event will be featured on Assemblymember Boerner Horvath’s website. The program will feature a special guest presentation of “Old Glory” by
Evangelo “Vann” Morris
and a musical performance by the
Oceanside High School Choir
.
The public is invited to join, space permitting, to take part in celebrating this group of individuals and organizations.
This event will be held indoors, and attendees will be required to wear face coverings at all times. The event will also be available via
livestream here
. Those interested in participating in person can RSVP via email
here
or by calling (760) 434-7605.
###
Assemblymember Tasha Boerner Horvath represents the 76th District, which encompasses Camp Pendleton, Carlsbad, Encinitas, Oceanside, and Vista. You can learn more about Assemblymember Boerner Horvath at
a77.asmdc.org
,
Facebook
,
Instagram
, or
Twitter
.