COVID-19 Rent Relief
The COVID-19 pandemic has created serious hardships for both tenants and landlords.
The Tenant, Homeowner and Small Landlord Relief and Stabilization Act of 2020 or “Tenant Relief Act” and the “Tenant Relief Act Extension of 2021” provides relief and assistance for tenants and landlords struggling financially due to the pandemic through June 30, 2021. The original extension also created a new State Rental Assistance Program and $2.6 billion in federal rental assistance available statewide.
Current actions under AB 832 will extend the deadline to September 30, 2021 to give tenants, homeowners and landlords more time to come to agreements and make use of the funding available. Additional steps will offer significantly stronger incentives for landlords to utilize these funds, as well as protections for tenants. Either a tenant or a landlord may initiate the process for rental assistance.
Visit
HousingIsKey.com
or call 1-833-422-4255
to learn more.
WHO CAN APPLY?
Renters:
If you are an income-eligible renter, you can apply on your own and receive financial assistance for unpaid rent, dating back to April 1, 2020, or help with future payments, even if your landlord doesn’t participate. If you are an income-eligible renter whose landlord participates in the program, you will need to complete the joint application. Once your landlord applies, you will be notified to submit information to complete the application process.
Landlords:
If you are a landlord and participate in the COVID-19 Rent Relief program, you can get reimbursed directly for 100% of your eligible renters’ unpaid rent, dating back to April 1, 2020.
HOW TO APPLY
To check eligibility and apply, visit
HousingIsKey.com
or call 833-430-2122. Once your application has been processed, you will be notified about your application status and next steps.
If you need assistance in another language or need help checking eligibility, filling out your application or uploading paperwork, schedule an appointment with a local organization near you by calling 833-687-0967.
WHAT HELP CAN YOU GET?
Assistance is available for 100% of unpaid rent and utilities, dating back to April 1, 2020, as well as future rent and utility payments. Utility payments will be paid directly to utility providers at 100% of cost, but are limited to a total of 12 months.
WHAT ELSE SHOULD YOU KNOW?
The application process has been significantly simplified. It now takes less time to complete, requires less paperwork to be uploaded, and offers helpful tips throughout the application.
Assistance from the CA COVID-19 Rent Relief program does NOT count as earned income for renters and will NOT affect eligibility for any other California state benefit assistance programs, such as CalFresh and CalWORKS. All applicant information is kept private and will not be shared. Income-eligible applicants may qualify regardless of immigration status and will not be required to show proof of citizenship.