ENCINITAS
— Assemblymember Tasha Boerner Horvath honors the Encinitas-based
Community Resource Center
as the 2021 California Nonprofit of the Year for Assembly District 76.
Each year, California Assemblymembers and State Senators select a nonprofit from their district to be recognized for their work to provide services to those in need, promote social change, and improve the quality of life in their communities.
The CRC was selected because of the staff’s tireless work to feed those in need, provide safety to those experiencing homelessness, and enable North County residents in crisis to find refuge and peace of mind.
“From domestic violence, to homelessness and hunger, all of the problems the CRC’s programs are designed to address were only exacerbated as a result of the pandemic,” said Assemblymember Boerner Horvath. “Through the hard work and dedication of their staff, and an outpouring of new volunteers, the CRC has been able to keep up their support for the most vulnerable, and then some. CRC’s programs have made all the difference for folks in a tough place, and for that, they deserve to be recognized.”
Founded in 1979 by a group of community and business leaders intent on addressing critical homelessness and food insecurity in the region, the Community Resource Center has grown to offer an extensive set of programs, offering everything from counseling to domestic violence case management and legal advice. Despite the challenges of nonprofit work during the pandemic, the staff and volunteers responded to the crisis with a 30% increase in food distributions, a 38% increase in case management, and a 28% increase in calls answered through their domestic violence hotline.
“The global pandemic and need to address systemic racial justice issues had a distinct impact on people experiencing food insecurity, homelessness and relationship violence,” said Jon Van Cleef, Chief Executive Officer of the Community Resource Center. “CRC was able to respond to these needs because of the dedicated direct-service staff and volunteers, who consistently showed up to provide these essential services, the donors who responded with generosity, and the civic leaders who acted boldly to help their most vulnerable community members.”
This is the sixth year of the California Nonprofit of the Year initiative. In this year of extreme uncertainty and suffering, nonprofits have continued to step up to support our communities as circumstances and needs change swiftly.
“Nonprofits are a community of stubborn optimists,” explains Jan Masaoka, CEO of the California Association of Nonprofits (Cal Nonprofits). “Our belief that the world can be better – more equitable, more kind – is powerful. Honoring a California Nonprofit of the Year shows that elected officials recognize and celebrate the good work they see nonprofits doing in their districts.”
###