COSTA MESA – On Thursday, December 16, 2021, Assemblywoman Cottie Petrie-Norris presented a check for $8 million from the State to support the purchase of one of the last remaining parcels of privately owned land along the Southern California coast. The Trust for Public Land and the Banning Ranch Conservancy plan to conserve Banning Ranch by converting the 385-acre plot of land into a public park and nature preserve. The new park and preserve will provide access to open space for nearly 9 million Californians who live within an hour’s drive of Banning Ranch. This project will cultivate a model for low-carbon, climate-resilient coastal protection while safeguarding sensitive habitat and wildlife.
“Forever protecting Banning Ranch is a once-in-a-generation opportunity,” said Assemblywoman Cottie Petrie-Norris (D-Irvine), whose district includes the property. “This project will restore vital coastal wetlands, provide unparalleled coastal access for surrounding underserved communities and preserve this jewel for all Southern Californians to enjoy.”
“For decades, California’s coastal advocates and community members have worked to keep alive the impossible dream of Banning Ranch as a public park and preserve,” said Costa Mesa City Councilwoman and longtime Banning Ranch advocate, Arlis Reynolds. “I’m so thankful to Assemblywoman Cottie Petrie-Norris and our friends at the Trust for Public Land for their commitment to make that dream a reality. This project will bring much needed park and recreation space and restore a rare piece of Southern California’s coastline current and future generations.”
“Banning Ranch is an unprecedented opportunity to promote park access for diverse disadvantaged communities, honor Native American cultural heritage, provide educational and recreational programs, protect sensitive habitat and wildlife species, and restore coastal wetlands to help battle climate change,” said President of Banning Ranch Conservancy, Terry Welsh, MD.
On December 16, 2021, Assemblywoman Petrie-Norris was joined by Trust for Public Land State Director, Guillermo Rodriguez; President of Banning Ranch Conservancy, Terry Welsh; Orange County Supervisor Katrina Foley; and Costa Mesa City Councilwoman Arlis Reynolds to present a check representing the $8 million in state funding secured for the acquisition of the Banning Ranch property.