SACRAMENTO, CA —
Yesterday evening, the California Legislature held its annual “Woman of the Year” celebrations to honor the contributions of extraordinary women across the Golden State.
Lisa Kodimer, the founder and Executive Director of Connecting a Caring Community, a nonprofit organization dedicated to inspiring and mobilizing the San Fernando Valley community to “live a life of giving,” was honored by Assemblymember Jesse Gabriel as the Woman of the Year for the 45th Assembly District.
“During these challenging times, Lisa Kodimer has been an unwavering force for good and has touched the lives of thousands of people in the west San Fernando Valley,” said Assemblymember Jesse Gabriel (D-Woodland Hills). “Her commitment to serving others and her talent for creating tangible, positive change is truly inspiring. I am grateful for everything she has done to support our frontline healthcare workers during the COVID-19 pandemic and I am proud to recognize her as our community’s “Woman of the Year.”
After almost twenty years of working as a small business owner, Kodimer, a longtime resident of Woodland Hills, established Connecting a Caring Community (CCC) in 2015. Today, CCC empowers hundreds of participants and provides numerous opportunities for giving back. CCC programs now include teen groups where participants develop leadership skills and gain confidence while volunteering for others, as well as programs where young adults with special needs socialize with other teens. All participants carry the common CCC goal to “give, love, and grow.”
Last year, CCC quickly began focusing on a response to the COVID-19 crisis by supporting frontline healthcare workers, assisting low-income schools and communities with remote learning resources, bringing connection to drug and alcohol recovery center residents, providing food baskets to homeless families in transitional housing, and bringing holiday cheer to hospitalized children fighting life-threatening illnesses.
“Lisa and her organization are so well-deserving of this award,” said Mark Miller, CEO of West Hills
Hospital. “Connecting a Caring Community did so much to care for our team at West Hills Hospital during the pandemic. Their support and encouragement helped us all to get through some of the most challenging days. Lisa is the type of community leader that searches out opportunities to serve. Some people respond to or fulfill requests but Lisa identifies needs before she is ever asked and meets those needs.”
“Givers give to receive nothing in return,” remarked Kodimer. “However, I am so humbled to be chosen Woman of the Year. Connecting a Caring Community has given me the gift of living each and every day with purpose and meaning, and mobilizing others to do the same. My hope is that my work will become a legacy and that my two beautiful boys will always be givers. I may not be changing the world, but we are changing communities one day at a time. I have accomplished so much because many believe in me and support me along the way. I am grateful to Assemblymember Jesse Gabriel for recognizing the selfless work I do and for this beautiful honor.”
The inspirational rock garden that CCC created at West Hills Hospital to boost the morale of frontline medical heroes and patients
CCC delivering meals and snacks to over eight local hospitals to support the frontline medical heroes