Sacramento, CA
—On Wednesday, February 16th, Assemblymembers Robert Rivas (D-Salinas) and Tim Grayson (D-Concord) announced Assembly Bill 2234, which will create a framework for local governments to process residential building permits more efficiently and cost-effectively across the state. AB 2234 will apply only to the building permit process, not plan and entitlement approval. This legislation is co-sponsored by the Housing Action Coalition and the Silicon Valley Leadership Group.
After local jurisdictions approve plans and entitlements for a new development, they must process building permits for the developer. Unfortunately, many projects spend months awaiting building permit approval. Ultimately, these long delays add to the overall cost of building homes across the state. AB 2234 will require developers to provide full and complete applications for their building permits and will also require local jurisdictions to promptly respond with any necessary feedback regarding complete applications.
“AB 2234 will improve the building permit process by clarifying expectations of both local governments and those who seek to build homes across California,” said
Assemblymember Robert Rivas (D-Salinas).
“Amidst our ongoing housing shortage, this legislation will provide straightforward solutions to prevent unnecessary delays in building critical residential projects.”
Joint author Assemblymember Tim Grayson (D-Concord)
explained that: “As a general contractor, I know that nothing drives up the costs of a project quite like uncertainty and time delays. By improving the post-entitlement building permit process, AB 2234 will strengthen communication between local governments and builders, effectively addressing costly delays and supporting California’s goal of building more homes for families of all income levels.”
“For far too long it’s been excessively arduous and time-consuming to build much-needed new homes across California, and the post-entitlement building permitting process is one of the roadblocks that causes lengthy and costly delays,” said
Todd David, Executive Director of the Housing Action Coalition
. “That’s why the Housing Action Coalition is proud to sponsor AB 2234 with Assemblymembers Rivas and Grayson to increase transparency, accountability, and clear communication between city governments and home builders and ensure that housing for residents of all income levels moves forward more efficiently."
"Delivering more affordable housing is crucial for strengthening California's business competitiveness,” explained
Ahmad Thomas, CEO of the Silicon Valley Leadership Group
. “This new bill will bring much-needed transparency and certainty to addressing our 3.5 million unit housing shortage with the urgency and scale needed."
“AB 2234 creates a common-sense framework to acquire building permits,” said
Meea Kang, Director of the Council of Infill Builders
. “This bill will ultimately help deliver more housing our state desperately needs.”
###
Assemblymember Robert Rivas (D-Salinas) represents California’s 30th Assembly District, which includes all or portions of the cities and towns of Aromas, Big Sur, Chualar, Gilroy, Greenfield, Gonzales, Hollister, King City, Morgan Hill, Salinas, San Martin, San Juan Bautista, Soledad, Spreckels, and Watsonville.