SAN GABRIEL, CA
– Today, California State Assemblymember Mike Fong presented a check for $200,000 in state funds to Friends of La Laguna, a nonprofit organization formed to preserve “dinosaur park” located within Vincent Lugo Park in San Gabriel. The funds will go towards restoring the iconic play structures originally built by artist Benjamin Dominguez.
“The historic play structures at La Laguna de San Gabriel are an icon of the San Gabriel Valley. I am proud to help bring state funds to complete the full structural restoration of the park,” said Assemblymember Mike Fong.
Friends of La Laguna was formed in 2006 in response to the city of San Gabriel’s announced demolition of the Laguna de San Gabriel playground.  The organization has restored the majority of the playground, preserving the play structures for generations to come.
Eloy Zarate of Friends of La Laguna said, “We are grateful for Assemblymember Mike Fong's efforts to bring state funds as it moves Friends of La Laguna closer to the finish line of this 16-year restoration effort. This important and historic community resource connects us through beautiful, imaginative public spaces. Assemblymember Fong joins the ranks of the miracle grants that have made saving and preserving this special playground possible.”
Members of the San Gabriel City Council attended the presentation and had helped facilitate the process of securing state funds for the playground.
“Today, we celebrate the collaboration from local residents, City Council, Pasadena City College and our Assemblymember.  We all came together to both support and fund in tandem this historic, vibrant playground so generations will continue to cherish, learn and thrive in this magical public space,” said San Gabriel Councilmember Denise Menchaca.
The $200,000 in funding for Friends of La Laguna is part of $29.4 million Assemblymember Mike Fong secured in the 2022-2023 state budget for critical investments in the 49th Assembly District.
###
About California State Assemblymember Mike Fong
Assemblymember Mike Fong was elected to the 49th District of the California State Assembly in February 2022, representing Alhambra, Arcadia, El Monte, Monterey Park, Rosemead, San Gabriel, San Marino, Temple City, and parts of Montebello and South El Monte.