As a proud member of the Budget Committee, Assemblymember Alex Lee has secured $17,800,000 in state funding for local projects throughout Assembly District 25.
“I’m thrilled we were able to secure nearly $18 million in local investments for the district,” said Assemblymember Lee. “This important funding will go to supporting homeless prevention, rebuilding a teen center, building an all-inclusive playground, supporting biking infrastructure, and developing a landmark bicycle and pedestrian gateway.”
$8 Million - Fremont Teen Center Building Upgrades
The Teen Center at Lake Elizabeth in Central Park serves as a hub for Fremont’s recreational and education programs, serving large numbers of youth year around and offers unique facilities for meetings, parties, and special events. The secured funding provides critical facility improvements to the Teen Center to enhance its safety and ability to continue to serve Fremont’s youth.
$6 Million - Fremont 1-680/Sabercat Bridge
The City of Fremont’s I-680 Sabercat Bridge & Trail (Irvington BART to Ohlone College) will be a landmark bicycle and pedestrian gateway into the City of Fremont. The secured funding will support construction of the trail which will cross the canyon of I-680 currently dividing the Irvington District, East Bay Greenway (EBGW), and future Irvington Bay Area Rapid Transit (BART) Station from the Sabercat Historical Park, Ohlone College, and Fremont Hills. The project will also create a bicycle/pedestrian connection over or under the Union Pacific Railroad (UPRR)/BART tracks.
$1.5 Million - Milpitas Homelessness Prevention and Unhoused Services
The Milpitas Homelessness Task Force and individual members of the Council expressed several priorities in addressing homelessness in Milpitas. The secured funding supports several priority projects including the continuance and expansion of the City’s mobile shower and laundry services, the establishment of a Milpitas Resource Center as a 2-year pilot program, and provides rent relief to vulnerable Milpitas residents.
$1 Million - Milpitas Bike Lanes Facilities Enhancement
To encourage greater mode shift from motorized vehicle travel, Milpitas looks to improve existing bicycle facilities to promote multi-modal nature of roadways and increase bicyclist comfort. This allocation supports upgrading existing bike lane infrastructure throughout Milpitas with green-colored pavement at intersections and through conflict areas, establishes green-colored intersection bike boxes, buffered bike lanes, and/or separated bikeways marked with bollards, posts, or on street parking.
$800,000 - Santa Clara Magical Bridge All-Inclusive Playground in Central Park
Central Park serves thousands of residents of Santa Clara, and neighboring communities, of all ages and abilities annually since 1965. This project funds the construction of a one-acre All-Inclusive Playground in Santa Clara's Central Park, ADA Renovation of the Arbor Area restroom, and installation of shade structures in the Arbor Center group picnic area.
$500,000 - Fremont Housing Navigation Center
In 2020, the City of Fremont opened a 45-bed temporary Housing Navigation Center (HNC)  to provide a clean, safe, calm and flexible environment that allows unhoused residents to rebuild their lives and focus on finding stable, permanent housing. HNC participants receive wrap-around services that include health and wellness resources, employment assistance, substance abuse services, and counseling. In the first year of operations, the HNC has proven to be successful in helping participants transition into permanent housing options. The funding secured supports HNC operational costs.
To learn more about the Budget allocations:
https://leginfo.legislature.ca.gov/faces/billNavClient.xhtml?bill_id=202120220AB178