FAIRFIELD, CA
– The Office of Assemblywoman Lori Wilson has announced hiring Tiffanee Danielle
Jones to serve as District Director for California’s 11th Assembly District. The 11th District encompasses
portions of Solano and Contra Costa Counties including the Cities of: Vacaville, Fairfield, Suisun City,
Rio Vista, Antioch, Oakley and Brentwood.
Tiffanee Jones is a lifelong resident of Solano County. She was born and raised in Vallejo, California.
She is the proud product of Vallejo Public Schools and graduated from Hogan High School. Ms. Jones
holds a Bachelor's Degree in Business Administration with a concentration in Organizational
Management from Morris Brown College in Atlanta, Georgia.
Ms. Jones has a 15 year background in Education. She most recently served as an Academic Support
Provider with the Vallejo City Unified School District and is the current Director of the Willie B. Adkins
Scholars Program. She is the Founder and CEO of Forward Education LLC, an education consulting
firm serving students in Solano County.
Ms. Jones is civically engaged. She serves as an elected member of the Solano County Democratic
Central Committee representing Supervisorial District 1 where she currently serves as the Southern
Vice Chair. Ms. Jones is an elected member to the California Democratic Party as Assembly District
Delegate representing the newly formed AD 11. During her time working within the Democratic Party,
she co-founded two Democratic clubs in Solano County; Solano County Democratic Workers Alliance
and Sankofa Democrats of Solano County.
Tiffanee has a heart and passion for public service. She is involved with several organizations and
commissions in Solano County and the Bay Area. She is a member of Delta Sigma Theta Sorority Inc.
Vallejo Alumnae Chapter, Alpha Delta Kappa Sorority, Lifetime Member of BWOPA (Black Women
Organized for Political Action), National Council of Negro Women, San Francisco Pride-Member at
Large, NAACP, Commissioner with First Five Solano and a Advisory Board Member with My Red
Shoes Inc.
“Tiffanee Jones brings a wealth of experience to our team,” said Assemblywoman Lori Wilson. “As a
native of Solano County, Ms. Jones will serve the 11th District well. Our community will find, as I have,
she has the passion and dedication needed for public service.”
“ I am honored to be able to continue to serve the residents of Assembly District 11. LET’S GET TO
WORK!” said Tiffanee.
The Office will now look to hire Field Representatives to fill out the staff and best serve the community
in the 11th District.
# # #