Today, Assemblymember Robert Rivas (D-Salinas) named Erica Padilla-Chavez Assembly District 30’s 2022 Woman of the Year as a part of the Women’s History Month celebration hosted by the Legislative Women’s Caucus.
Currently, Padilla-Chavez serves as the CEO of Pajaro Valley Prevention & Student Assistance, Inc., providing behavioral health and youth prevention services to over 7,000 youth and their families in the Pajaro Valley. To help the community during the pandemic, Padilla-Chavez convened and led a coalition of over thirty non-profit and governmental organizations named the South County COVID Triage Group. The effort provided financial and legal assistance, housing retention, and behavioral health support to residents impacted by COVID-19. For the last twelve years, she has also served on the Board of Trustees for Hartnell College.
“I am excited to announce Erica Padilla-Chavez as Woman of the Year for Assembly District 30,” said
Assemblymember Robert Rivas
. “Erica has demonstrated an unparalleled commitment to the region through her work at Pajaro Valley Prevention & Student Assistance, as a trustee of Hartnell College, and in assembling the
South County COVID Triage Group. Erica is a true public servant, embodying her motto ‘service above self.’”
"I'm honored to be selected by Assemblymember Rivas for this award,” said
Erica Padilla-Chavez
. “I share it with the women that I've had the privilege to work with during this challenging period. Together, we have led with compassion, integration, and genuine collaboration to aid our communities in multifaceted ways. There is no greater gift in life than to use our skills to make other people's lives better. Thank you Assemblymember Rivas for acknowledging that a collective approach to achieving community wellness is the way forward."
###
Assemblymember Robert Rivas (D-Salinas) represents California’s 30th Assembly District, which includes all or portions of the cities and towns of Aromas, Big Sur, Chualar, Gilroy, Greenfield, Gonzales, Hollister, King City, Morgan Hill, Salinas, San Martin, San Juan Bautista, Soledad, Spreckels, and Watsonville.