(Sacramento, CA)
Today, Governor Gavin Newsom signed Assembly Bill 2234, authored by Assemblymembers Robert Rivas (D-Salinas) and Tim Grayson (D-Concord), and co-authored by Assemblymember Buffy Wicks (D-Oakland) and Senator Scott Wiener (D-San Francisco).
AB 2234 helps address our housing affordability crisis by modernizing the framework for homebuilders and local governments to process post-entitlement residential building permit applications more efficiently and cost-effectively. Post-entitlement permits can cover demolition, paving, site remediation, and other activities necessary to get a project underway, and are only applicable after a proposed project has been approved and undergone all relevant environmental reviews, including the CEQA process. Unfortunately, under current law, the process of applying for and receiving these permits can be confusing and unpredictable, which drives up the cost of new housing. This problem is especially acute for affordable housing developments, many of which rely on grant funding that expires after a certain date. If the relevant building permits are not returned in time, the entire project may fall through – even after it had been approved.
Assemblymember Robert Rivas:
“As California faces a significant and serious housing shortage of almost 3 million homes, we need to utilize every tool in our kit to prevent building delays and higher costs for renters and future homeowners. AB 2234 represents yet another step forward in tackling our ongoing housing affordability crisis, and I applaud the Governor for signing to this legislation.”
Corey Smith, Executive Director of Housing Action Coalition:
“The Housing Action Coalition is proud to partner with SVLG and Assemblymembers Rivas and Grayson to simplify and accelerate the post-entitlement home building permitting process. AB 2234 will enhance transparency, accountability, and communication between city governments and home builders and ensure that housing for residents of all income levels moves forward more efficiently."
Ahmad Thomas, CEO of Silicon Valley Leadership Group:
“Signed into law today by Governor Newsom, AB 2234 signifies a fresh approach to California’s housing crisis, with leading innovation economy businesses working in close partnership with legislative leaders, housing advocates, and developers to identify, develop and promote a commonsense solution to a seemingly intractable problem – the labyrinthine local residential permitting process. SVLG and our members recognize that issues like access to affordable housing are not only vital to strengthening the region's business competitiveness but also in ensuring a more equitable future for the Valley – and this bill signifies the first example of our new approach to addressing the toughest challenges of our day.”
Assemblymember Tim Grayson:
“As a general contractor, I’ve experienced firsthand the struggles with the post-entitlement permitting process. AB 2234 helps improve efficiency, predictability, and accountability in the process. I am thrilled the Governor has signed this important legislation to support quality homebuilding and affordable homeownership in California.”
Assemblymember Buffy Wicks, Chair, Assembly Committee on Housing & Community Development:
“AB 2234 was a significant component to the Assembly Housing Bill package passed by the Legislature this year, and we deeply appreciate the Governor’s signature. The basic timelines and transparency for building permits created by this legislation will avoid the costly delays that have plagued the process in the past.”
Senator Scott Wiener, Chair, Senate Housing Committee:
“Standardizing the building permit process for local governments is a commonsense solution for the dire housing crisis California faces. AB 2234 will help us streamline permitting and get homes built faster.”
###