SACRAMENTO, CA
– The California Legislative Black Caucus (CLBC) elected Assemblywoman Lori D. Wilson (D-Suisun City) and Senator Steven Bradford (D-Gardena) to serve as its Chair and ViceChair for 2023-2024 legislative session. In addition, Assemblymember Akilah Weber, M.D. (D-SanDiego) and Assemblymember Isaac G. Bryan (D-Los Angeles) will hold Secretary and Treasurer positions. The newly elected officers will assume their two-year terms in December.
“It is a great honor to have been elected Chair of the California Legislative Black Caucus, said Assemblymember Wilson. I look forward to working with my colleagues to uplift over two million Black residents living in California. From access to healthcare to housing and homelessness to criminal justice reform and creating economic opportunity, the CLBC has a long history of legislative accomplishments. I am excited to build upon the past successes of the honorable leaders who have come before me as we move forward into the 2023-2024 Legislative Session."
“It has and continues to be a distinct privilege to serve as an executive leader of the California Legislative Black Caucus,” said Senator Bradford. “In everything I do, my role and responsibility is to pick up the baton where our previous Chairs, founding and former serving members left off by continuing to champion Black issues in the state. It is an honor to pass the leadership torch to
Assemblywoman Wilson and serve alongside her as we embark on a new chapter. I have full confidence in her ability to elevate this Caucus. I want to thank our immediate past executive leadership team for their strength and unwavering commitment to lead during these past two years. Together we have been a powerful force, championing legislative policies and initiatives with the purpose of enriching the lives of Black Californians. I look forward to working with the newly elected officers to further advance an agenda that ensures equity and opportunity for all Californians.”
Founded in 1967, the
California Legislative Black Caucus
is a bipartisan and bicameral body of Black Members joined together to eliminate existing racial and social disparities and inequities for Black Americans.
###