SACRAMENTO, Calif (July 1, 2022) – Yesterday, Governor Gavin Newsom signed AB 1621, authored by Assemblymember Mike A. Gipson (D-Carson), an urgency measure and among a package of critical gun related legislation, which is focused on banning ghost guns across California.
“Following the signing of AB 1621 (Ghost Guns) into law, I applaud Governor Gavin Newsom for his leadership and unwavering commitment to justice and improving the safety and overall quality of life for all Californians, leading the way for the nation to follow,” said Assemblymember Mike A. Gipson. “In countless communities in the state of California and across the nation, gun violence is at its worst, and the biggest fear for our families is that it reaches someone they know and love. We are also finding that more and more, no region or demographic is exempt – our hospitals, grocery stores, schools, and even places of worship, are no longer safe.
The proliferation of “ghost guns”, which are intentionally untraceable weapons to evade law enforcement, has only worsened the issue. In addition to individual homicides, these untraceable weapons are often used in mass shootings. Their parts and kits can be ordered online, in-store, or at a gun show, without a background check, and they can be put together to form a fully functioning firearm in under half an hour. In even less time than it takes someone to build that gun, they could go out and kill someone else with it, and almost anyone can order these kits. In a video I circulated to all of my colleagues in the Legislature, a 17-year-old purchased a kit online for $149.99, had it shipped in a couple of days, and all he needed to do is find a YouTube video to assemble it. Luckily, that child only ordered a ghost gun kit to show how simple it is to obtain one, but that lack of regulation should alarm everyone. Public safety must not be taken for granted, and we must stand together and continue to implement solutions, like AB1621, to eradicate the rampant wildfire of gun violence currently ravaging our streets and safe-havens.”
“California continues to lead the nation in enacting comprehensive and common-sense laws to prevent gun violence, and particularly to stop the proliferation of dangerous ghost guns,” said Kris Brown, President for the Brady Campaign. “This bill is an elegant solution to an extraordinary crisis and will stop these untraceable and fully functional firearms from spreading across the state and sparking violence in communities that are already disproportionately impacted by gun violence. Brady is grateful to Assemblymember Gipson for his continued leadership to prevent gun violence and keep Californians safe.”
“Today, California took critical, bold action to stop the proliferation of ghost guns, effective immediately,” said Ari Freilich, State Policy Director for Giffords. “For years, an unaccountable ghost gun industry has flouted our state's gun safety laws and flooded communities with unregulated, untraceable gun build kits sold without so much as a background check or age check to protect us. Those days end now. This ghost gun reform legislation will make families safer immediately and has been a top priority for Giffords for years. We applaud Assemblymember Gipson, who has championed this cause and worked tirelessly to reform the ghost gun industry. Thanks to his work, Governor Newsom, and all California lawmakers and advocates who worked to pass this bill into law, California will be a safer place tomorrow than yesterday."