Sacramento CA
– Today, Assemblymember Rebecca Bauer-Kahan’s bill AB 1666 passed off the Senate floor to head directly to Governor Newsom’s desk. AB 1666 protects those in California from civil liability for providing, aiding, or receiving abortion care. The bill has an urgency clause, so the protections will go into effect immediately should the Governor sign it.
“Twenty-six million women nationwide are already facing near-total abortion bans, and the U.S. Supreme Court has abandoned its duty to ensure their equal rights,”
said Assemblymember Bauer-Kahan.
“E
xtremist laws from anti-choice states are putting California and its providers in danger. AB 1666 creates a strong legal shield to ensure abortion care stays legal in our state.”
AB 1666 declares that any legal action brought against the right to reproductive choice is against the public policy of California, and therefore will not be enforced by California courts. The right to an abortion is enshrined in California law. Because the Supreme Court is likely to overturn
Roe v. Wade,
laws like AB 1666 will be the primary bulwark to protect abortion rights. AB 1666 makes it possible for California to protect providers and patients in the face of an onslaught of reactionary and restrictive policies being enacted across the nation.
“These precautions and protections are a key first step as California prepares for a post-Roe world, and unfortunately necessary given the increased hostility and frequency of abortion bans in other states seeking to target patients and providers,” said Molly Robson, Legislative Director for Planned Parenthood Affiliates of California. “Taking this action now is crucial and we applaud the California Legislature for taking swift action on this legislation.”
AB 1666 is part of a suite of bills from the California Future of Abortion Council, which convened community leaders, advocates, providers and policy makers to shape legislative and budget priorities for reproductive healthcare. The bill has been developed in consultation with constitutional experts and abortion providers to speak to this unprecedented watershed moment for reproductive rights in the United States.
"I have seen the devastating effects of limiting access to abortion,” said Dr. Selina Sandoval, MD, on behalf of the American College of OBGYN’s District IX. “We are already seeing patients who were forced to delay their care, travel hundreds if not thousands of miles, and take time off that they can’t afford just to undergo straightforward and safe medical procedures.”
For 1.4 million women, California will soon be the closest state without an abortion ban. AB 1666 is a key piece of a larger legal framework that makes California a sanctuary state for abortion.
AB 1666 is headed to the Governor’s desk. The bill is co-authored by 40 CA Assemblymembers and Senators including Aguiar-Curry (D-Winters), Berman (D-Palo Alto), Bennett (D-Santa Barbara), Bloom (D-Beverly Hills), Bryan (D-Culver City), Boerner Horvath (D -Oceanside), Mia Bonta (D-Oakland), Calderon (D-Whittier), Carrillo (D-Los Angeles), Cervantes (D-Corona), Daly (D-Anaheim), Gabriel (D-Woodland Hills), Friedman (D-Glendale), Cristina Garcia (D-Bell Gardens), Cooper (D-Elk Grove), Haney (D-San Francisco) Lee (D-Santa Clara), Levine (D-Marin), Kalra (D-San Jose), Quirk-Silva (D-Fullerton), Robert Rivas (D-Salinas), Luz Rivas (D-Arleta), Mullin (D-San Mateo), Friedman (D-Burbank), Stone (D-Santa Cruz),  Irwin (D-Thousand Oaks), Low (D–San Jose), Mullin (D-San Mateo), Maienschein (D-Poway), McCarty (D-Sacramento), Medina (D-Riverside), Muratsuchi (D-Torrance), Nazarian (D-Van Nuys), Petrie-Norris (D-Newport Beach), Santiago (D-Los Angeles), Ting (D-San Francisco), Akilah Weber (D-San Diego), Ward (D-San Diego), Wicks (D-Berkeley) and Wood (D-Eureka). Senators Wiener (D-San Francisco), Leyva (D-San Bernadino), Lim
ón (D-Santa Barbara), and Min (D-Laguna Woods).
###