Newport Beach
-
Assemblywoman Cottie Petrie Norris has named Dr. Marnie Baker (Irvine), Dr. Ginger Osborne (Laguna Beach), Dr. Bonnie Castrey (Huntington Beach), Ms. CeCe Sloan (Laguna Woods), Ms. Debora Wondercheck (Costa Mesa) and Judge Frances Muñoz (Newport Beach) as the 2022 Women of Distinction for the 74th Assembly District. (
VIDEO
)
Woman of Distinction is an annual recognition ceremony held in honor of Women’s History Month. Community members are invited to nominate women who have shown extraordinary work, mentorship and leadership. This year Girls Inc. was a partner at this event, which served as an opportunity for the young girls they work with to meet and learn about the incredible women in their communities.
Assemblywoman Petrie-Norris opened the event by recognizing some incredible and historic developments that took place in the last month on the national and state level. She noted that on March 31, Eleni Kounalakis, California’s Lieutenant Governor became the first woman ever to sign a bill into law here in California.
She also mentioned the historic Senate vote to confirm Kentanji Brown Jackson as the 116th Supreme Court justice, making her the first Black woman to serve on the nation’s highest court.
“We also have trailblazers right here in our community and I am so excited to celebrate them.” Assemblywoman Cottie Petrie-Norris said.
The assemblywoman was joined by Mayor Farrah Khan of Irvine, Mayor John Stephens of Costa Mesa, Mayor Sue Kempf of Laguna Beach, Mayor Carol Moore of Laguna Woods, and Huntington Beach Councilmember Rhonda Bolton to celebrate the six incredible woman from the district and to present them with their certificates and resolutions.
Dr. Marnie Baker
“On behalf of Memorial Care Health System who has really stepped up to vaccinate the City of Irvine and the communities that we serve, thank you for the recognition it is such an honor”.
Dr. Bonnie Castrey
“I love public education, it is a pillar or our democratic society. We need to stand up and make sure public education does not take any more hits, it is really critical. Thank you for this honor.”
Ms. Debora Wondercheck
“My vision for the Arts and Learning Conservatory is seen throughout the countless children impacted by the exposure to and the participation in various forms of art whether in singing dancing, acting or playing a musical instrument. I am elated to receive such a wonderful distinction and recognition for my work in the community.”
Ms. CeCe Sloan
“What would we do without the arts in our lives? They add beauty and whole other dimension to who we are. I thank you for the honor, I can’t imagine doing anything else, and I encourage everyone to go to the theater and enjoy it.”
Dr. Ginger Osborne
“I work on climate policies to improve our health and to reduce the effects of climate change, and I do it because I look at the younger people and I can’t wait to see what is in store for them.”
Judge Frances Muñoz was recognized in absentia.
There were more 150 nominations for the Women of Distinction. These six women were recognized in a special ceremony in Newport Beach.