MONTEREY PARK, CA
– Assemblymember Mike Fong and the Los Angeles Community College District (LACCD) announced the allocation of $1 million to the East Los Angeles College (ELAC) Vincent Price Art Museum (VPAM) today at 8:00 a.m. CA Assemblymember Fong (D- 49) was joined by LACCD Board Vice President David Vela, President Alberto J. Roman, D.P.A., East Los Angeles College, and Steven Wong, Vincent Price Museum Director.
"I am proud to secure $1 million in state funding for the Vincent Price Art Museum (VPAM) to increase access to its world-class collection through digitization and to expand the Museum Studies Certificate Program to all nine LACCD colleges,” said Assemblymember Mike Fong. “Thank you to my colleagues in the state legislature, as well as my former colleagues at LACCD and VPAM for investing in the arts and promoting arts education.”
The funds were included in the FY 2022-23 State Budget and will enable the Museum to digitize its 9,000-piece collection, making it accessible and available to the community, K-12 schools, and community college students District and statewide.
"The $1 million state grant will enable the Vincent Price Museum to produce a complete inventory and digitization of the Museum's 9,000-piece collection and make it available online," said LACCD Board Vice President David Vela. "The collection's online access will make the Collection available to the general population, K-12 schools, and other post-secondary institutions, allowing it to be enjoyed by everyone."
The funding will also improve and expand the Museum Studies Certificate Program to all LACCD colleges. This unique program provides a career pipeline to students of diverse socio-economic and academic backgrounds. Through the opportunity to engage in rigorous academic study, professional training, and professional development, students cultivate a solid foundation for obtaining entry-level job opportunities within the museum field.
"On behalf of our LACCD Board of Trustees, students, staff, and faculty, a heartfelt appreciation to Assemblymember Mike Fong for always being our steadfast advocate," said LACCD Chancellor Francisco C. Rodriguez, Ph.D. "Currently, the District has almost 8,000 students majoring in the visual arts. This grant will make the Vincent Price Museum Collection more accessible to these students and the public, further enriching our entire community's educational experience."
“This funding will be vital for the Vincent Price Art Museum. It will allow the Museum Studies Certificate program to expand to all nine colleges in LACCD and will also help to ensure that all have access to their amazing collection once digitized,” said ELAC President Alberto Roman.
About Assemblymember Mike Fong
Assemblymember Mike Fong was elected to the 49th District of the California State Assembly in February 2022, representing Alhambra, Arcadia, El Monte, Monterey Park, Rosemead, San Gabriel, San Marino, Temple City, and parts of Montebello and South El Monte. In the Assembly, Mike serves on the Appropriations; Banking and Finance; Privacy and Consumer Protection; Rules; and Arts, Entertainment, Sports, Tourism, and Internet Media Committees. His priorities include expanding access to quality higher education, healthcare, protecting the environment, ensuring public safety, creating jobs, and addressing homelessness.
About the Vincent Price Art Museum
The mission of the Vincent Price Art Museum at East Los Angeles College is to serve as a unique educational resource for the diverse audiences of the college and the community through the exhibition, interpretation, collection, and preservation of works in all media of the visual arts. VPAM provides an environment to encounter a range of aesthetic expressions that illuminate the depth and diversity of artwork produced by people of the world, both contemporary and past. By presenting thoughtful, innovative, and culturally diverse exhibitions and by organizing cross-disciplinary programs on issues of historical, social, and cultural relevance, VPAM seeks to promote knowledge, inspire creative thinking, and deepen an understanding of and appreciation for the visual arts.
About East Los Angeles College
ELAC is the largest of nine two-year community colleges within the Los Angeles Community College District (LACCD),
www.laccd.edu
. More information about ELAC is available online at
http://www.elac.edu/
. Follow ELAC on social media, Facebook @Eastlacollege, Twitter @Eastlacollege, and Instagram @ELACHuskies.
###