SACRAMENTO
– Today,
Assemblymember Kalra, California Secretary for Natural Resources Wade Crowfoot
, special districts, and community groups launched a new partnership to help achieve the state’s “30x30” goal. In 2020, Governor Newsom adopted Executive Order N-82-20, a commitment to protect 30 percent of our lands and coastal waters by 2030, as part of an international movement that was first championed in California by Assemblymember Kalra and environmental advocates through AB 3030. At the federal level, President Biden has also established a 30x30 conservation goal, joining more than 100 countries and subnational governments with similar targets.
“California led the way in being the first state in the union to establish a 30x30 goal and with the recent signage of AB 2278 and unveiling of this critical partnership, I am optimistic California will meet its goals quickly to protect biodiversity and preserve healthy and equitable outdoor, natural spaces for all,” said
Assemblymember Kalra
.
“Our state is one of the world’s 36 biodiversity hotspots and home to some of the nation’s most unique and rare species,” said
Secretary
Crowfoot
. “Yet the climate crisis threatens all of us with extreme weather, historic drought, catastrophic wildfires, and ocean warming. 30x30 recognizes that nature is essential in the fight against climate change.”
The California Natural Resources Agency (CNRA) released in April the
Pathways to 30x30 Strategy
to illustrate how the EO will be implemented. Just last week, Governor Newsom signed AB 2278 (Kalra) to create a process that would ensure the legislature and public are updated on the progress and plans to implement EO N-82-20’s 30x30 goal.
“Audubon California greatly appreciates the commitment from Governor Newsom and Assemblymember Kalra to conserve 30% of our lands and waters for nature by 2030,” said
Mike Lynes, Director of Public Policy for Audubon California,
sponsors of AB 2278 and the original 30x30 bill. “AB 2278 is an important step because it prioritizes listening to communities and building partnerships between members of the public, tribes, and government agencies that are essential to meeting the 30x30 goals. We are thrilled the bill coincides with the opportunity to build this partnership across the state and achieve our shared goals.”
###
Assemblymember Ash Kalra
was first elected to the California Legislature in 2016, representing the 27th District, which encompasses approximately half of San Jose and includes all of downtown. In 2020, he was re-elected to his third term. Assemblymember Kalra is the Chair of the State Assembly Labor and Employment Committee and currently serves as a member on the Housing and Community Development, Judiciary, Transportation, and Water, Parks, and Wildlife committees.