SACRAMENTO, CA —
Today, Assemblymember Jesse Gabriel (D-Woodland Hills), Chair of the California Legislative Jewish Caucus, announced that the California Office of Emergency Services (CalOES) has awarded over $4.8 million in security funding to more than 20 nonprofit organizations serving the west San Fernando Valley through the California State Nonprofit Security Grant Program.
“Colleyville, Texas may be thousands of miles away, but the hostage situation at Congregation Beth Israel was deeply personal for many communities in the San Fernando Valley,” said
Assemblymember Jesse Gabriel
, who Chairs the California Legislative Jewish Caucus. “It was a sad and shameful reminder that our houses of worship are always targets, and that security training and enhancements can mean the difference between life and death. This funding can make a real difference, and I am committed to working with my colleagues to ensure that the State of California steps up to protect all vulnerable communities targeted by hate.”
“Because of the rise of antisemitic events across this nation, security is a concern to every synagogue regardless of its size,” said
Rabbi Jon Hanish of Temple Kol Tikvah in Woodland Hills
. “Without grant assistance, it would be difficult for smaller institutions like Kol Tikvah to fully protect themselves. While I wish these types of grants weren't needed, they are. I am so appreciative of the assistance given to us by Assemblymember Jesse Gabriel, the State of California, and the Jewish Caucus.”
Established through legislation authored by Assemblymember Gabriel following the deadly shooting at a Chabad synagogue in San Diego County in 2019, the Nonprofit Security Grant Program has funded critical security enhancements at religious institutions, LGBTQ community centers, reproductive health facilities, and other nonprofits in California deemed to be at risk from violent extremism. Last year’s state budget included a $50 million allocation for the program, a historic increase that was secured with the support of leaders and activists representing a broad coalition of vulnerable communities. In 2019, the budget included $15 million for the program.
Last week, Assemblymember Gabriel introduced AB 1664, which will extend and strengthen the Program, which is currently set to expire in 2025.