SACRAMENTO
- Assemblymember Marc Berman (D-Menlo Park) will host his fourth annual Family Health and Wellness Fair on Saturday, September 24th from 1-4pm at Mariano Castro Elementary School in Mountain View. A partnership with Mountain View Whisman School District and El Camino Health, the event will bring together health and wellness services from around the region for all attendees to access for free.
“Research shows the critical importance of preventive health screenings in ensuring children’s health and long-term development,” said Assemblymember Berman. “My Family Health and Wellness Fair is a great opportunity to catch up on a whole host of important preventive health screenings, including dental, vision, heart, diabetes, and mental health screenings. In addition, we will be providing many other types of assistance for the community—from grocery bags of food to diapers to backpacks and school supplies. And as we enter would could be a dangerous flu season, you can also get your flu shot as well as your Omicron booster. I’m grateful to the many providers and sponsors who stepped up to make this the best Health Fair we’ve done.”
El Camino Health will provide the new Omicron booster and Safeway will provide flu shots at the Family Health and Wellness Fair. Community service providers from around the county and city will offer information about accessing critically important services. Youth and families will have dozens of opportunities explore, learn, play, and stay healthy. Local nonprofits will provide interactive art, math, and science activities. The event will host a series of raffles with prizes for all ages. The backpack giveaway is sponsored by the Silicon Valley Community Foundation, school supplies are sponsored by the Los Altos Mountain View Community Foundation, diapers, masks, and period products are donated by SupplyBank.org, and the grocery distribution is sponsored by local dentists. View the full list of exhibitors
here
.
Contact: Bermanpress@asm.ca.gov