(SACRAMENTO) – Assemblymember Steve Bennett (D-Ventura) and Senator Monique Limon announced today that Legislation to restrict gun sales at the Ventura County Fairground has been
signed
by the Governor.
According to a report published by UC Davis, gun shows are a source for illegally trafficked firearms. The Center for American Progress noted that gun shows have received criticism as being "the critical moment in the chain of custody for many guns, the point at which they move from the somewhat-regulated legal market to the shadowy, no-questions-asked illegal market." And, according to American Academy of Pediatrics California, "Gun violence is among the greatest public health crises facing children and youth. Nearly 7,000 children younger than 18 are killed or wounded by gunshots each year." Firearm-related deaths are now the leading cause of death for children ages 1 to 19.
"Unfortunately, the United States experiences far more gun violence per person than virtually every other modern industrialized country in the world," Said Bennett, "and what accounts for this? The United States has one of the most pervasive gun cultures in the world supported by a powerful gun lobby. Gun shows at the Fairgrounds enhance this and it is time for each of us to play a role in changing this culture."
"State property does not need to be in the business of facilitating the sale of firearms," said Senator Limón, "this legislation is an important step forward to enhance gun safety and reflects the direction that our local communities have asked the state to take on."
"We in Ventura County are so grateful that this step has finally been taken to make our community safer. Of course, we realize there’s still so much more that must be done. We will continue to work toward the goal of a country without the continual fear of gun violence." Karen Peters, Co-Chapter Leader, Ventura County Chapter of Brady United Against Gun Violence.
"This legislation will make the Ventura Fairgrounds and surrounding communities safer from gun violence", said Rose Ann Sharp, founder of NeverAgainCA.
AB 1769 builds off efforts in other counties to restrict gun sales. In 2021, SB 264 (Min) was signed into law to prohibit gun sales at Orange County Fairground. And in 2018, Governor Newsom signed into law AB 893 (Gloria) which ended gun shows at the Del Mar State Fairground.