On Thursday, April 21, Assemblywoman Cottie Petrie-Norris along with Girls Inc. co-hosted an event where six women were recognized for their distinguished service and leadership within our communities. Among them was the Honorable Judge Frances Muñoz, Newport Beach, who was recognized in absentia.
The event was held at Marina Park Community and Sailing Center Event Room.
The Honorable Judge Frances Muñoz, Newport Beach was appointed in 1978 by Governor Jerry Brown to the Orange County Harbor Judicial District as the first Mexican female judge in California. Judge Muñoz has focused on the issues she is passionate about, including immigration, education, diversity in the legal system and family. Her commitment to the Latino community has also led her to found various organizations including the Hispanic Education Endowment and The Ralph Luevano Scholarship Foundation, and along with a small group of Latino attorneys she co-founded the Hispanic Orange County Bar Association. After 28 years on the bench, Judge Muñoz retired, but continues her public service on the bench as an assigned judge.
Assemblywoman Petrie-Norris opened the event by recognizing some incredible and historic developments that took place in the last month on the national and state level. She noted that on March 31, Eleni Kounalakis, California’s Lieutenant Governor became the first woman ever to sign a bill into law here in California.
She also mentioned the historic Senate vote to confirm Kentanji Brown Jackson as the 116th Supreme Court justice, making her the first Black woman to serve on the nation’s highest court.
“We also have trailblazers right here in our community and I am so excited to celebrate them.” Assemblywoman Cottie Petrie-Norris said.
Every year, Assemblywoman Petrie-Norris’ office recognizes Women’s History Month by opening up nominations for Women of Distinction. This event highlights and honors women across the 74th Assembly District for their service and leadership within our communities. There were 150 nominations for the Women of Distinction.