Sacramento, CA—
On World Water Day, March 22nd, the Assembly Committee on Environmental Safety and Toxic Materials passed Assembly Bills 2106, 2108, and 2113.
The first piece of legislation, Assembly Bill 2106, modernizes the state’s permitting system for the treatment of stormwater, the most significant source of water pollution in California today. Assembly Bill 2108 improves representation of tribal and disadvantaged communities on the State and Regional Water Boards and better incorporates environmental justice considerations into major water permits. Finally, Assembly Bill 2113 sends fines paid by violators of water quality standards back to the impacted communities, instead of funding state government bureaucracy.
“I want to express my gratitude to the Chair, Dr. Quirk, and the rest of my colleagues on the committee for their support in moving this vital legislation forward,” said
Assemblymember Robert Rivas (D-Salinas)
. “As we approach the 50th anniversary of the Clean Water Act, we must recognize that California has done a great job at preventing water pollution in affluent areas, but we still have a long way to go in our low-income communities of color. This legislation will ensure everyone, regardless of zip code or income level, has access to clean water.”
“I’m proud to work with and support Assemblymember Robert Rivas on this important package of clean water bills for our most vulnerable Californians as they passed out of the Assembly Committee on Environmental Safety and Toxic Materials today,” said
Assemblymember Cristina Garcia (D-Bell Gardens)
. “This package will ensure that fifty years after the enactment of the Clean Water Act, your zip code will no longer determine whether or not you have access to clean and affordable water. In my district, the San Gabriel River and the Los Angeles River remain unsafe with a toxic cocktail of copper, cadmium, zinc, lead, oil, dangerous bacteria, and trash. The rivers are one of the few areas of open space and many of my constituents will benefit from this package of bills.”
“Today, we celebrate not only World Water Day, but our legislation’s first major step towards becoming law and providing clean water for all Californians.” said
Sean Bothwell, Executive Director of California Coastkeeper Alliance
.
AB 2106 and AB 2113 now head to the Assembly Appropriations Committee while AB 2108 will be heard in the Assembly Committee on Water, Parks, and Wildlife next.
###
Assemblymember Robert Rivas (D-Salinas) represents California’s 30th Assembly District, which includes all or portions of the cities and towns of Aromas, Big Sur, Chualar, Gilroy, Greenfield, Gonzales, Hollister, King City, Morgan Hill, Salinas, San Martin, San Juan Bautista, Soledad, Spreckels, and Watsonville.