For Immediate Release
January 31, 2021
Assemblymember Ash Kalra, Author of AB 1400 CA Guaranteed Health Care for All Act, Releases Statement
SACRAMENTO
– Assemblymember Ash Kalra (D-San Jose) released the following statement in anticipation of the Assembly taking a vote on AB 1400, California Guaranteed Health Care for All Act (CalCare) today:
“Despite heavy opposition and substantial misinformation from those that stand to profit from our current healthcare system, we were able to ignite a realistic and achievable path toward single-payer and bring AB 1400 to the floor of the Assembly. However, it became clear that we did not have the votes necessary for passage and I decided the best course of action is to not put AB 1400 for a vote today.
“Although the bill did not pass the Assembly by today’s deadline, this is only a pause for the single-payer movement; our coalition, including the mighty California Nurses Association, will continue the fight for accessible, affordable, and equitable healthcare for all Californians.
“I have been honored to shepherd this bill through the legislature and it would not have been possible without the support of Speaker Rendon and AB 1400 co-authors. The facts are on our side that a single-payer system will save money and lives—and the people are on our side that meaningful healthcare reform is urgently needed. Especially with four democratic vacancies in the Assembly, the votes were not there today, but we will not give up. Healthcare is a human right and CalCare has made clear the just path as an alternative to the inequitable system we have in place today.”
###
Assemblymember Ash Kalra
was first elected to the California Legislature in 2016, representing the 27th District, which encompasses approximately half of San Jose and includes all of downtown. In 2020, he was re-elected to his third term. Assemblymember Kalra is the Chair of the State Assembly Labor and Employment Committee and also currently serves as a member on the Housing and Community Development, Judiciary, Transportation, and Water, Parks, and Wildlife committees.