THOUSAND OAKS –
Assemblymember Jacqui Irwin (D-Thousand Oaks) and the City of Thousand Oaks will be co-hosting an event highlighting some of the local emergencies and challenges with respect to water, wildfires, medical issues and landscape sustainability. The event will take place on Saturday, July 9th. This free event is open to the public and will provide valuable information to people of all ages.
Two presentations will be conducted in the Scherr Forum, the first of which will be hosted by Assemblymember Irwin. A panel consisting of representatives from local water agencies, the Conejo Recreation and Park District, and Ventura County Fire Department will discuss current restrictions, future efforts and how we can plan as a community for the drought. The second presentation will be presented by the Ventura County Master Gardeners who will answer your questions and discuss preservation of trees and plantings and explore options for future drought tolerant landscaping.
“The historic drought conditions we are facing require that each one of us take action to safeguard our properties and reduce our water consumption,” said Assemblymember Jacqui Irwin. “This event will feature experts and professionals who will provide information that will allow us to do just that.”
Public Safety with their vehicles, and health professionals will also be on hand to talk about preparations in advance of emergencies, evacuation planning, Basic CPR, and overdose and drug safety. Growing Works Nursery and Assemblymember Irwin will be giving away free native plants as long as supplies last.
Additional presentations will involve representatives from the California Department of Insurance who will discuss what is needed before and after a fire or other emergency, The Ventura Regional Fire Safety Council will discuss hardening your home and property against fire and the Ventura County Fire Department will present their Ready, Set, Go – Wildfire Action Plan.
The 911 Emergencies in the 805 event will be held at the Thousand Oaks Civic Arts Plaza Park located at 2100 Thousand Oaks Blvd., from 10:00 am to 1:00 pm on Saturday, July 9th. Free parking is available in the parking structure.
CONTACT: Joel Price (805) 482-1904