SACRAMENTO, Calif.
— Assemblymember Boerner Horvath’s (D-Encinitas) bill requiring the California Highway Patrol (CHP) to develop statewide safety standards and training programs for e-bike users, has been signed into law by Governor Gavin Newsom on Monday, Aug. 15.
While the majority of bicyclists follow the rules of the road, cities have seen an increase of pre-teens and teenagers breaking rules and engaging in dangerous behavior, such as not wearing a helmet, obeying traffic safety rules, and piling-on multiple riders onto a single bike. Without statewide safety education and training standards, local authorities are faced with addressing e-bike safety concerns in their communities without direction or tools to educate riders.
“E-bikes’ increased accessibility and speed require proven, statewide safety education and training programs on how to ride safely and legally,” said Assemblymember Tasha Boerner Horvath. “I’m thrilled Gov. Newsom has signed this important legislation that will keep riders safe across the state as they take up this exciting mode of active transportation.”
The E-Bike Safety and Education Training Program
addresses the lack of statewide, uniform, e-bike safety education and training standards by requiring the CHP to develop, by September 1, 2023, safety and training guidelines for e-bike riders in-line with evidence-based practices. CHP will work collaboratively with relevant stakeholders in developing these safety standards and training programs, which will be posted to the department’s website upon completion.
E-bikes make it easier to ride than ever before, though it also means less-experienced riders can travel faster with greater ease, increasing the risk of crashes and injuries. One study by the National Electronic Injury Surveillance System
determined
accidents involving e-bikes are more likely to result in serious injuries than traditional bikes with the most common types of injuries including head injuries, broken bones, back and spinal injuries, and cuts and bruises.
###
Assemblymember Tasha Boerner Horvath represents the 76th District, which encompasses Camp Pendleton, Oceanside, Vista, Carlsbad, and Encinitas. You can learn more about Assemblymember Boerner Horvath at
a77.asmdc.org
,
Facebook
,
Instagram
, or
Twitter
.