SAN BERNARDINO—Community members are invited to a fentanyl awareness town hall and Narcan training town hall on Saturday, October 22 at 10 a.m. to learn more about the region’s fentanyl epidemic; participants will receive training in the use of Narcan, an overdose prevention treatment. Those undertaking the training will also receive a supply of Narcan.
The town hall comes just after an announcement earlier this week by
San Bernardino and Riverside County officials announcing an attack on the drug on all fronts
. San Bernardino County also announced creation of a
web portal
to help the public learn about resources to combat the epidemic and find resources if help is needed.
Assemblymember James C. Ramos (D-Highland) is hosting the Saturday event and will be joined by Sgt. David Salyer, Overdose Response Team from the San Bernardino County Sheriff Department; Steve Filson, of Victims of Illicit Drugs and a parent who lost a daughter to a fentanyl overdose; Sharein Soleiman, a counselor from Inland Empire Harm Reduction; San Bernardino County Public Health Officer Dr. Michael Sequeira and Josh Dugas also from the from San Bernardino County Public Health Department.
“I have met with families who lost loved ones to fentanyl and worked with them to increase awareness about the drug’s dangers and successfully introduced legislation based on what they shared with me. The town hall is part of my overall commitment to fight this scourge,” Ramos said. “We need everyone in this fight—law enforcement, schools, mental health providers, kids and adults; this is why increasing awareness is so critical to overcoming this nightmare.”
Town hall details:
WHEN:      Saturday, October 22 from 10 a.m. to 11:30 a.m.
WHERE:
California State University, San Bernardino, Social and Behavioral Sciences,
SB-128,
5500 University Pkwy. San Bernardino, CA 92407
###
Assemblymember James C. Ramos proudly represents the 40th Assembly district which includes Highland, Loma Linda, Mentone, Rancho Cucamonga, Redlands, and San Bernardino. He is the first and only California Native American serving in the state’s legislature. He chairs the Assembly Military and Veterans Affairs Committee.