Sacramento CA
– Today, Assemblymember Bauer-Kahan introduced AB 1666 to protect anyone sued for providing, receiving, or helping someone get abortion care, from civil liability. On the steps of the Capitol, Assemblymember Bauer-Kahan joined with the Legislative Women’s Caucus to celebrate the 49th anniversary of the
Roe v. Wade
decision and commit to a legislative package proactively supporting rights and access to abortion.
“Laws across the country leave abortion providers, organizations, and individuals open to tens of thousands of dollars in liability. This is unacceptable,” said
Assemblymember Bauer-Kahan.
“Reproductive freedom is a fundamental right laid out in California’s constitution. With AB 1666, California based providers, individuals, and organizations will be protected from the financial disaster they face for providing basic reproductive health care.”
AB 1666 declares any action brought against reproductive choice to be against the public policy of California, and therefore not to be enforced by California courts. This right to an abortion is enshrined in California’s constitution. With the Supreme Court set to decide a case that could overturn
Roe
, actions by states that support abortion access are the primary bulwark to protect abortion rights.  AB 1666 makes it possible for California to protect California providers and patients in the face of an onslaught of reactionary and restrictive policies.
“As other states pass legislation stripping people of their constitutional right to abortion and severely restricting access to essential care, they are threatening abortion providers and those who assist patients with costly lawsuits that set a dangerous precedent,” said
Jodi Hicks, President and CEO of Planned Parenthood Affiliates of California
. “To keep abortion accessible to all who need it, we must protect California abortion providers, patients, and supporters. We thank Assemblymember Rebecca Bauer-Kahan for introducing AB 1666 which aligns with recommendations put forth by the California Future of Abortion Council to ensure that California remains a true reproductive freedom state.”