Joint Statement on Committee Chair Announcements
SACRAMENTO, Calif. — Assemblymember Tasha Boerner Horvath (D-Encinitas) and Assemblymember Sharon Quirk-Silva (D-Orange County) released the following statements in response to Speaker Anthony Rendon’s Committee chair selections.
Boerner Horvath will serve as Chair of the Communications and Conveyance Committee, which Quirk-Silva previously chaired, while Quirk-Silva will serve as Chair of the Arts, Entertainment, Sports, and Tourism Committee — Boerner Horvath’s previous role.
Assemblymember Quirk-Silva:
My district is host to many prominent California attractions that contribute significantly to our economy, such as Knott’s Berry Farm, Disneyland, California Adventure, Downtown Disney, and many more museums and community attractions.
I appreciate Speaker Rendon’s appointment and am thrilled to, once again, be named Chair of the Arts, Entertainment, Sports, and Tourism Committee. I look forward to building on the work the committee has done in support of our robust arts and entertainment industry.
Assemblymember Tasha Boerner Horvath will be a perfect fit to lead the Communications committee. Her extensive career and wealth of knowledge from working with Fortune 500 companies, non-profits, and higher-education institutions will be a great asset to the state of California
Assemblymember Boerner Horvath:
I am honored to take on this new role as Chair of the Communications and Conveyance Committee and I thank Speaker Rendon for this opportunity. We’ve made progress over the last several years on bridging the digital divide, but there’s much more work to do, and I look forward to building on Assemblymember Sharon Quirk-Silva’s important work expanding broadband access to communities throughout California.
I also want to congratulate her on her new role as Chair of the Assembly Committee on Arts, Entertainment, Sports, and Tourism. She brings a wealth of experience and a desire to keep California’s signature industries thriving. I have enjoyed serving as Chair of Arts and Entertainment and look forward to continuing to work with the new Chair, the Senate Joint Arts Chair, and the California Arts Council on supporting our arts and cultural arts districts.
###