SACRAMENTO, CA—
As the state legislature resumes this week, Assemblymember Robert Rivas continues to welcome the public to participate in his office’s third annual ‘There Ought to be a Law’ Program. First introduced in December 2019, the ‘There Ought to be a Law’ Program invites constituents of the 30th Assembly District to submit state policy proposals for the upcoming 2022 legislative session.
“Some of the best, most effective policy ideas originate not in Sacramento, but from our community,” said Assemblymember Rivas. “Listening to our constituents produces better solutions for our communities and California as a whole.”
Participants are encouraged to be creative and thoughtful in their proposals. In the past, policy submissions have ranged from local community improvements to statewide initiatives addressing a variety of issues.
Assemblymember Rivas has introduced two policy proposals submitted through the previous years’ ‘There Ought to be a Law’ Programs:
AB 3153
(2020; Sustainable Transit Zoning) and
AB 1144
(2021; Cottage Food Operations). AB 1144 was signed into law by Governor Newsom in September.
“Residents can make a significant difference in their communities through this program,” said Gilroy Councilmember Zach Hilton, who originally submitted the idea behind AB 3153 in 2020. “I am excited to see what ideas are submitted this year.”
“There Ought to be a Law’ is an opportunity to brainstorm a better community,” explained Susanne McBride, who proposed the idea behind AB 1144 in 2021. “Constituents can make their dreams a reality.”
Constituents wishing to participate in the program can do so at the link
here
, or by going to Assemblymember Rivas’s state website and clicking on the ‘District’ and then ‘There Ought to be a Law’ tabs. The deadline to submit a policy proposal is Friday, January 14, 2022.
###
Assemblymember Robert Rivas (D-Salinas) represents California’s 30th Assembly District, which includes all or portions of the cities and towns of Aromas, Big Sur, Chualar, Gilroy, Greenfield, Gonzales, Hollister, King City, Morgan Hill, Salinas, San Martin, San Juan Bautista, Soledad, Spreckels, and Watsonville.