SACRAMENTO—Speaker Assembly Speaker Anthony Rendon (D-Lakewood) today announced he has appointed Assemblymember James C. Ramos (D-San Bernardino) as Chair of the Assembly Rules Committee.
In announcing the statement, Rendon said of Ramos: “He has an outstanding background that lends itself to the administrative functions of this key committee. The fact that he is a representative of California’s original residents has added meaningful stature to the Assembly and now he brings that important quality to this Committee. Above all, the valuable diligence that Asm. Ramos has shown during his time in the Assembly is what we need at this time. I’m pleased to make this appointment and thank him for stepping into this role.”
Assembly Rules Committee has primary jurisdiction for matters relating to the business of the Assembly, including assignment of bills to committees, staffing and other house procedural responsibilities.
Ramos, the first California Native American elected to the legislature, expressed his thanks to the Speaker and stated, “I am honored and grateful to Speaker Rendon for entrusting me with the committee that oversees the operation of our house. In my prior roles as the Chairman of the San Manuel Tribal government and as the Chairman of the San Bernardino County Board of Supervisors, I oversaw and worked through a wide variety of administrative issues at the local, state, and federal level.” He added, “In these administrative roles I worked alongside departments, and colleagues, to ensure successful outcomes. As Chair of the Assembly Rules Committee, I will work hard to utilize my experience in fulfilling the responsibilities within the committee’s jurisdiction.”
Ramos also noted the historical nature of his place in a key legislative role. “I am mindful of history and serving in this position as the first California Native American elected to Legislature; it once financed genocide against the state’s First People. My commitment is to well serve all the people of California and my colleagues.”
###
Assemblymember James C. Ramos proudly represents the 45th Assembly district which includes Fontana, Highland, Mentone, Redlands, Rialto and San Bernardino. He is the first and only California Native American serving in the state’s legislature. Ramos chairs the Assembly Committees on Rules.