Assemblymember Tina McKinnor (D – Inglewood) today announced that the Jesse Marvin Unruh Assembly Fellowship Program is accepting applications for the 2023-2024 class.
The Assembly Fellowship Program provides the opportunity for aspiring public servants of all ages, backgrounds, and experiences to directly participate in the legislative process. Beginning in October 2023, the 11-month Fellowship provides an introduction to public policy through full-time work as professional staff in an Assemblymember’s office. Fellows also participate in a weekly academic seminar, earning 6 units of graduate credit and a Graduate Certificate in Applied Policy and Government from California State University, Sacramento. Fellows are paid a monthly stipend of $3,253, plus health, dental and vision benefits.
“The Assembly Fellowship Program offers college graduates the unique opportunity to learn and craft public policy through hands-on work with elected officials and staff,” said Assemblymember Tina McKinnor. “The Program provides a challenging, professional work experience that serves as the foundation for successful careers in both the public and private sectors.”
Fellows experience the broad range of activities conducted in busy Assembly offices including researching public policy issues, developing legislative proposals, analyzing and staffing legislation, assisting with constituent casework, participating in meetings as the Assemblymember’s representative, and writing press releases and speeches. The program begins with a seven-week orientation which provides training on state government, the legislative process, and major policy issues.
Applicants must be at least 20 years of age and a graduate of a four-year college or university by September 1, 2023. There is no preferred major. Individuals with advanced degrees and those in mid-career are encouraged to apply.
Brochures can be requested online. For more information, or to apply, visit the Capital Fellows website at
https://www.csus.edu/center/center-california-studies/capital-fellows
. Please contact the Center for California Studies with any questions at
calstudies@csus.edu
or (916) 278-6906.
The deadline for submitting applications is Monday, February 6, 2023, by 5:00 p.m. PST.