SACRAMENTO, CA
– Sen. Bill Dodd, D-Napa, announced today that he and Assemblymember Cecilia Aguiar-Curry, D-Winters, secured an additional $6 million in the California state budget for Yolo County projects addressing local priorities in the areas of childcare, parks, wildlife preservation and underserved farmers.
“Yolo County is making a number of key improvements that will benefit the community,” Sen. Dodd said. “From bolstering childcare to upgrading our parks, these are all worthy projects. As always, I am glad to secure this funding to help advance local priorities.”
“It is an honor to partner with my friend and colleague, Sen. Dodd,” said Assemblymember Aguiar-Curry. “This funding from our state budget will help several of our communities serve< our mutual constituents in health, open space, education and agriculture. The Yolo Crisis Nursery, Knights Landing Park, Capay Valley Health and Community Center – now a partnership between Yolo County, Yocha DeHe Wintun Nation and the state – the Yolo Bypass Visitor Center, named for our recently passed congressional hero Vic Fazio, and Underserved Farmers’ pilot will benefit people throughout the county for many years to come.”
“On behalf of Yolo County, we appreciate Sen. Dodd and Assemblymember Aguiar-Curry for championing $6 million of funding for vital projects that will enhance the lives of residents and wildlife in Yolo County,” said Angel Barajas, chair of the Yolo County Board of Supervisors.“These investments will continue to help improve the health of our communities for years to come.”
The $6 million comes in addition to $6.5 million Assemblymember Aguiar-Curry and Sen. Dodd secured in the current budget cycle for the Capay Valley Health and Community Center.
The latest allocation will go to the following projects:
Improvements to Knight’s Landing Park
Work on the Vic Fazio Wildlife Area
Expansion of the Yolo Crisis Nursery
Upgrades at the Underserved Farmer’s Cooperative
Assemblymember Aguiar-Curry represents the 4th Assembly District, which includes all of Lake and Napa Counties,parts of Colusa, Solano and Sonoma Counties, and all of Yolo County except West Sacramento
.
###