SACRAMENTO, CA
– Gail Pellerin was sworn in as the Assemblymember for District 28 today in the State Capitol. The newly elected Assemblymember will represent Santa Cruz County from the harbor north to the county line, Davenport, Bonny Doon, Santa Cruz, Scotts Valley, Felton, Ben Lomond, and Boulder Creek. She will represent Los Gatos, Monte Sereno, Willow Glen, Cambrian Village, South San Jose, the Almaden Valley, Coyote Valley, and Morgan Hill in Santa Clara County.
“I am humbled and grateful to have been chosen to represent the residents of District 28 in Sacramento; it means the world to be the first woman from Santa Cruz County to serve in the legislature,” stated Pellerin. “Whether it’s tackling climate change, affordable housing, providing affordable and equitable healthcare, delivering mental health services for those in need, or ensuring we remain a safe state for reproductive services, I will work hard to ensure that my constituency is being heard.”
Gail Pellerin served as the chief elections official in Santa Cruz County from 1993 until her retirement in December 2020. As County Clerk, Gail managed all elections conducted in the county and served as the Commissioner of Civil Marriages. Gail has 35 years of experience in public service – over seven years working for the State Legislature in Sacramento, including for an Assembly office representing Morgan Hill, and 27 years working for the people of Santa Cruz County. In June 2018, Gail was elected to her 4th term as County Clerk.
Since retirement, Gail has joined the board of NAMI (National Alliance on Mental Illness) and is involved with Girls Inc. and Women’s Educational Success at Cabrillo College. She is currently busy creating the Cabrillo College Local Government Fellows program to encourage first-generation students to pursue an education that can lead to a career in local government and to provide scholarships, paid internships, and mentorships. Gail has also been an outspoken advocate for suicide prevention awareness and mental health resources.
Gail has a BS in Journalism from Cal Poly, San Luis Obispo. In her spare time, she enjoys going to the beach with her labradoodle Darwin and spending time with her two adult children, Jacob and Emily.
# # #