FRESNO. CA
– Assemblymember Dr. Joaquin Arambula (D-Fresno) on Tuesday, October 4, will present a $4 million check to the Fresno State Mobile Health Unit to support the important free basic health services that the unit’s nursing students and administrators provide to rural and disadvantaged communities throughout Fresno County and neighboring counties.
The presentation and news conference will begin at 8:30 a.m. in front of the Fresno State Student Health Center, 5044 N. Barton Ave., Fresno, CA 93740.
Assemblymember Arambula this year secured General Funds in the State budget for the allocation, which will purchase two state-of-the-art mobile health units. The program currently uses an aging mobile unit on loan from the Fresno County Office of Education. The funds also will provide support and stipends for the nursing students, who sometimes travel long distances to provide basic health care screenings.
The students and the Mobile Health Unit – under the leadership of Dr. Kathi Rindahl, an assistant professor in the Fresno State College of Health and Human Services – have earned a stellar reputation for delivering free basic services, such as flu shots and blood pressure and blood sugar screenings. During the COVID-19 pandemic, the unit administered COVID vaccines and boosters to further ensure that people living in rural and underserved communities could have access to these inoculations.
Assemblymember Arambula said
: “I’m pleased to have secured $4 million in State funds for Fresno State’s Mobile Health Unit. The work of Dr. Rindahl and the Fresno State nursing students is invaluable. I’ve worked alongside them as we delivered more than 10,000 COVID vaccines to underserved people in outlying areas and have been so impressed by their skills and demeanor. At the same time, the program provides these students with the experience of helping people from diverse backgrounds. The mobile health unit fulfills a critical and unique role in delivering health care services in our region while preparing students for the medical profession.”
Dr. Saúl Jiménez-Sandoval, President of Fresno State, said
: "We deeply appreciate Dr. Arambula's work in obtaining this substantial investment of State resources. With Dr. Arambula’s support, we will take our program to the next level and our students, our university, and our communities will all benefit greatly. With this additional funding, Fresno State will be able to expand our services and outreach to rural and underserved communities, providing healthcare to people who would otherwise go without. Additionally, and just as importantly, our College of Health and Human Services will be able to involve faculty and students from other disciplines in this important work, thereby creating inter-professional experiences and high-impact practices for a greater number of students and faculty."
Other speakers at the October 4 announcement are scheduled to include Dr. Rindahl; Dr. Denise Seabert, Dean of the Fresno State College of Health and Human Services; and Kaide Garrett, a Fresno State nursing student.
Attached is an updated map of the press conference location and media parking. Media availability will follow the presentation.
###