SACRAMENTO, CA –
The bipartisan and bicameral California Legislative Women’s Caucus elected Senator Nancy Skinner (D-Berkeley) as its Chair and Assemblymember Cecilia AguiarCurry (D-Winters). Their two-year terms will commence on December 5, 2022, the current chair and vice chair will continue to lead the Caucus until then.
“I want to offer my deepest thanks to the members of the Legislative Women’s Caucus for this incredible honor, and I want to congratulate Assemblymember Cecilia Aguiar-Curry for her well-deserved selection as vice chair of the caucus. I also want to convey my sincerest gratitude to our outgoing chair, Assemblymember Cristina Garcia, for the outstanding job she did leading our caucus with courage and élan,” said Senator Nancy Skinner (D-Berkeley). “As the new chair of the caucus, I’m committed to pushing forward with the important work we’ve done to improve the lives of all California women and families, and to ensure that our state is a national haven for reproductive freedom and abortion rights and services. We will also never waiver in our fight to enshrine the Equal Rights Amendment in the U.S. Constitution where it rightfully belongs.”
Elected to the California State Senate in 2016, Senator Skinner previously served three terms in the California State Assembly.
“I am very excited that the California Legislative Women’s Caucus has elected Senator Nancy Skinner to serve as the Chair. As our Caucus vice chair, Senator Skinner has been a great partner in ensuring our Caucus grows and pushes through a bold agenda defending women’s reproductive rights and uplifting women economically through the pandemic. I look forward to seeing her continue to grow the Caucus and spearhead an ambitious agenda for women and girls in our state,” said Assemblymember Cristina Garcia (D-Bell Gardens), Chair of the California Legislative Women’s Caucus.
“I am immensely honored at the confidence my colleagues have shown in me by electing me Vice Chair of the Legislative Women’s Caucus,” said Assemblymember Cecilia Aguiar-Curry (D-Winters). “We hope to build our ranks to 50 or more women Senators and Assemblymembers in November, strengthening our ability to work on those issues most important to families and equality in all areas of our lives. I am excited to work with our incoming chair, my dear friend and colleague Senator Nancy Skinner, and to build on the incredible work done by our current Chair Cristina Garcia, on so many important issues. I am especially committed to promoting in every workplace, especially the legislative workplace, a more healthy and safe environment that respects every person, regardless of gender, background, race, ethnicity or orientation.”
Elected to the California State Assembly in 2016, Assemblymember Aguiar-Curry has served three terms in the California State Assembly.
“I have had the pleasure of serving with Assemblymember Aguiar-Curry in the Assembly since 2016. She has demonstrated a deep commitment to find policy solutions for big issues, ranging from expanding broadband government to increasing access to health care services for all Californians,” said Assemblymember Garcia. “I have no doubt that she and Senator Skinner will be a great team who will work to elevate all women in the Capitol community and the State.”
Formed in 1985, the bipartisan California Legislative Women’s Caucus now includes 39 legislators of both parties, including 15 Senators and 24 Assemblymembers. Women in the legislature account for only 32 percent in both the Senate and Assembly. Additionally, five women serve as Constitutional Officers. The Legislative Women’s Caucus represents and advocates on behalf of the diverse interests of women, children and families throughout California. It seeks to increase participation and representation of women in state government. Women’s Caucus members seek to promote sound legislative policies and budget priorities that will improve the well-being of women, children and families and to work cooperatively with local, state and national women’s organizations interested in advancing policies to achieve these same objectives.
###