(SACRAMENTO) – Assemblymember Steve Bennett (D-Ventura) and representatives from Draughtsman Aleworks in Goleta announced legislation today to assist breweries with duplicative licensing requirements.
"If there's one thing the pandemic has shown us is that giving small businesses more flexibility helps them succeed, particularly in these challenging times." Said Assemblymember Bennett. "Draughtsman Aleworks, a local brewery and community partner located in Santa Barbara, has worked hard to serve the community and expand their business. Many of these types of restrictions are leftover from prohibition and need to be brought into the 21st Century.  If we can play a role in responsibly reducing regulatory requirements, we should.  I am happy to partner with them in this effort."
Tami Snow, Storyteller at Draughtsman Aleworks, noted: "We are thrilled to have Assemblymember Bennett's team review and update the current Business and Professions Code (Sec 25607) as it pertains to alcoholic beverages. The existing tied-house laws, while important, needed this fix so that they do not hinder every Californian small producer's ability to effectively sell the fruits of their labor. We value the time, attention and the efforts of Assemblymember Bennett and his team to review and update these regulatory laws in order to make them more equitable."
"This bill supports important Tied-House laws by creating a common sense fix for businesses to better serve their customers. We appreciate Assemblymember Bennett's efforts to protect these important alcohol regulatory laws while making them easier to understand and navigate." Said Lori Ajax, Executive Director of the California Craft Brewers Association.
AB 1734, a common sense measure, would allow multiple license holders, under identical ownership, to sell their beer and wine product together at their locations.  The bill was introduced today in the Assembly and is likely to be referred to Assembly Governmental Organization Committee for a hearing this spring.