Sacramento, CA—
On Wednesday, February 2nd, as the U.S. faces an ongoing global shipping crisis, Assemblymembers Robert Rivas (D-Salinas) and Patrick O’Donnell (D-Long Beach) will co-chair an informational joint hearing of the Assembly Agriculture Committee and the Assembly Select Committee on Ports and Goods Movement regarding the consequences of shipping congestion on California’s agricultural sector.
“From May to September of last year, the shipping backlog cost California farmers approximately $2.1 billion in lost agricultural exports,”
said Assemblymember Robert Rivas, Chair of the Assembly Agriculture Committee
. “As policymakers, we need to not only better understand the impacts of port congestion on our farmers and ranchers, but also develop strategies to ensure another similar crisis never happens again. I look forward to engaging with my colleagues and fellow chair, Assemblymember Patrick O’Donnell, to resolve this crisis.”
“In addition to the supply chain bottlenecks impacting imports, there is another dire side to the supply chain crisis. California exports are being negatively impacted,”
said Assemblymember Patrick O’Donnell (D-Long Beach), Chair of the Assembly Select Committee on Ports and Goods Movement.
“Our state’s massive economy cannot thrive if our California-made goods, particularly our prized agricultural products, are unable to reach their global markets. I thank my co-chair, Assemblymember Robert Rivas, for his leadership on this joint hearing to uncover what can be done to keep our products, our workers and our economy moving.”
The joint informational hearing is set to be held from 9 to 11 A.M. on Wednesday, February 2nd, at the State Capitol in Room 126 and can be accessed online via the State Assembly’s website.
###
Assemblymember Robert Rivas (D-Hollister) represents California’s 30th Assembly District, which includes all or portions of the cities and towns of Aromas, Big Sur, Chualar, Gilroy, Greenfield, Gonzales, Hollister, King City, Morgan Hill, Salinas, San Martin, San Juan Bautista, Soledad, Spreckels, and Watsonville.