SACRAMENTO, CA
- On Friday, September 30th, Governor Gavin Newsom signed Assembly Bill (AB) 2806 into law. Bill author Assemblymember Blanca Rubio and sponsors Kidango, Black Men for Educational Equity, Santa Clara County Office of Education, and State Superintendent of Public Instruction Tony Thurmond celebrate the signing of this monumental legislation which will prohibit suspensions and expulsions in early learning and care programs.
AB 2806 would define suspension and expulsion in preschool and child care settings, eliminate exclusionary practices, and provide that suspension and expulsion only be used as a last resort in extraordinary circumstances where there are serious and validated safety concerns. The bill also provides early learning and care providers with
early childhood mental health consultation services that help create inclusive and anti-bias environments, interactions, and experiences that buffer the effects of trauma and bring out the most optimal development of each unique child.
“The signing of AB 2806 is a crucial moment for our education system. Bringing an end to discriminatory expulsion and suspension practices that have plagued our pre-kindergarten learning spaces will drastically increase positive outcomes in our youngest learners. As a lifelong educator, it was an honor to author this legislation which remedies a critical pitfall which has historically impacted our youngest and most at risk children. I am proud stand in solidarity with all of the advocates, parents, and especially the sponsors that helped make AB 2806 a reality ”said
AB 2806’s author Assemblymember Blanca Rubio (D-Baldwin Park).
“This legislation will make a significant impact toward creating a more equitable system for access to high-quality early education,”said
Dr. Mary Ann Dewan, Santa Clara County Superintendent of Schools.
“This legislation establishes essential standards to move the pendulum toward equity, inclusion and quality in ECE. Early childhood mental health consultation will then serve a critical role in helping programs reimagine and align mindsets, behaviors and interactions that improve conditions that benefit everyone.”said
Tena Sloan, Vice-President of Early Childhood Mental Health Consultations at Kidango
“We know that inequitable access to, and exclusion from, developmentally appropriate, culturally and linguistically relevant, trauma-informed, anti-racist and inclusive environments for children in early learning and care programs significantly contributes to discriminatory and racist practices,” said
Khieem Jackson, Co-founder of BMEE
. “The school readiness gap, the academic achievement gap and the graduation gap contributes to the school to prison pipeline. This bill is a step in the correct direction to address harsh and racist disciplinary actions against students of color.”
The Governor’s and the California Legislature’s support of this bill demonstrates their continued commitment to children and families. Assemblymember Rubio, Kidango, Santa Clara County Office of Education, Black Men for Educational Equity, and State Superintendent of Public Instruction Tony Thurmond thank Governor Newsom and will continue to work in partnership with him, his Administration, and the Legislature to ensure young children thrive, families are supported, and teachers have the tools they need to serve our youngest learners.
###
Assemblywoman Rubio
represents the 48th Assembly District, which is comprised of the cities of Azusa, Baldwin Park, Bradbury, City of Industry, Covina, Duarte, El Monte, Glendora, Irwindale, Monrovia, West Covina, and the San Gabriel Valley unincorporated areas of Los Angeles County, including Bassett, Charter Oak, Citrus, East Arcadia, Ramona, Valinda and West La Puente.
Kidango
is an Early Learning nonprofit committed to setting every child on a path to thrive in Kindergarten and in life. As the largest childcare provider in the San Francisco Bay Area, we provide thousands of children, especially those from low-income families, with safe, healthy, nurturing environments and relationships. Our goal is to make sure all children have the social, emotional, and academic skills they need to learn, grow and realize their potential.
Santa Clara County Office of Education
Working collaboratively with school and community partners, the Santa Clara County Office of Education (SCCOE) is a regional service agency that provides instructional, business, and technology services to the 31 school districts of Santa Clara County. The County Office of Education directly serves students through special education programs, alternative schools, Head Start and State Preschool programs, migrant education, and Opportunity Youth Academy.
Black Men for Educational Equity (BMEE) is a volunteer group of unaffiliate Black and African American fathers, uncles, brothers’, sons and community members. BMEE is focused on rolling-back, mitigating and preventing systemic inequities in the
education system.