(INGLEWOOD, CA) – California’s commitment to address the ongoing housing and homelessness crisis received collaborative and bipartisan boost with the signing of legislation by recently elected Assemblymember Tina McKinnor (D - Inglewood). AB 1743 (McKinnor) requires local governments to report the amount of housing that was actually produced and occupied in the previous year. AB 1743 was part of a 38 bill housing package signed into law today by Governor Gavin Newsom designed to increase housing production, expand housing financing and help millions of Californians access safe, affordable housing.
An analysis by McKinsey & Company estimated that California lacks over 2 million units of housing to meet the needs of its residents. To address this crisis, the legislature and the governor included nearly $4 billion in this year’s state budget for various initiatives to address homelessness and housing scarcity. As these and other funding sources begin to roll out, there is currently no mechanism to determine how many housing units from these or other public funds were not just zoned, but built and occupied.
AB 1743 asks local governments a very simple, but important question - after all the work of this legislature, the governor and our local governments over the past several years to address the housing crisis, how much housing was actually produced?
“We can solve California’s housing crisis through partnerships between government, developers, non-profit and faith-based organizations,” said Assemblymember Tina McKinnor. “By harnessing the innovative will of Californians, necessary public and private investments and a legislature and governor truly committed to solving the housing crisis, I am confident that we can help all Californians find a safe and affordable place to call home. AB 1743 will give the public and policy makers an important metric necessary to guide our efforts to expand housing opportunities to all Californians in the future.”
AB 1743 takes effect on January 1, 2023.