Sacramento, CA—
At its 20th Latino Spirit Awards this week, the California Latino Legislative Caucus recognized Central Coast leader Alfred Diaz-Infante as one of its nine 2022 honorees.
Diaz-Infante served as President and CEO of the Community Housing Improvement Systems and Planning Association (CHISPA) for 23 years prior to his death last year. Under Diaz-Infante’s leadership, CHISPA built and renovated 2,447 single-family homes and apartments for low- and moderate-income households in Monterey, San Benito, and Santa Cruz Counties.
“Alfred’s relentless pursuit of safe and decent affordable housing transformed the lives of thousands of families,” said
Latino Caucus Vice Chair Assemblymember Robert Rivas (D-Salinas)
. “A man of Alfred’s talents could have thrived anywhere in the world, but he chose to dedicate his life to helping others right here at home. I look forward to seeing his legacy live on in the work that he began and that all of us will continue.”
“Alfred Diaz-Infante was my friend,” said
Senator Anna Caballero (D-Merced)
. “His belief that every person deserves a safe place to call home inspired me to be an affordable housing advocate. Although bittersweet, I am pleased that he received the Latino Spirit Award. It is my hope that through Alfred’s legacy, families throughout California will be able to enjoy home ownership.”
“CHISPA is proud to see Alfred’s work and dedication to our community recognized and honored by the California Latino Legislative Caucus,” said
Patty Padilla-Salsberg, Chair of the CHISPA Board of Directors
. “He continues to inspire our efforts to bring dignified affordable housing to our region.”
“It was an honor to attend the 20th Annual Latino Spirit Awards,” said
Karina Nava, daughter of Diaz-Infante,
and who, alongside her mother Elvira, was in attendance to accept the award. “Although it was a bittersweet moment for my family and me, we are so grateful to the California Latino Legislative Caucus for recognizing my dad’s achievements. We miss him every day and he continues to inspire us.”
###
Assemblymember Robert Rivas (D-Salinas) represents California’s 30th Assembly District, which includes all or portions of the cities and towns of Aromas, Big Sur, Chualar, Gilroy, Greenfield, Gonzales, Hollister, King City, Morgan Hill, Salinas, San Martin, San Juan Bautista, Soledad, Spreckels, and Watsonville.