(SACRAMENTO) – A recently enacted law authored by Assemblymember Steve Bennett (D-Ventura) and Senator Monique Limon to restrict gun sales at the Ventura County Fairground has been challenged in court by the NRA.
According to a report published by UC Davis, gun shows are a source for illegally trafficked firearms. The Center for American Progress noted that gun shows have received criticism as being "the critical moment in the chain of custody for many guns, the point at which they move from the somewhat-regulated legal market to the shadowy, no-questions-asked illegal market." And, according to
American Academy of Pediatrics California
, "Gun violence is among the greatest public health crises facing children and youth. Nearly 7,000 children younger than 18 are killed or wounded by gunshots each year.
Firearm-related deaths are now the leading cause of death for children ages 1 to 19.
"The powerful gun lobby has once again attacked the views and desires of the majority of Californians. Unfortunately, the United States' pervasive gun culture experiences far more gun violence per person than virtually every other modern industrialized country in the world,"said Bennett, "this isn't by chance. The NRA has blocked even the most popular and common sense gun control measures. It is time for the courts to recognize that the NRA's arguments are legally flawed, out of touch, and just plain wrong."
"In a time when we continue to see a rise in gun violence, it is disappointing, but no surprise that the NRA is pushing back on keeping gun shows out of Ventura County," said Senator Limón. "We in the Legislature remain committed to keeping our communities safe from gun violence and this policy is critical in doing so."
AB 1769 builds off efforts in other counties to restrict gun sales. In 2021, SB 264 (Min) was signed into law to prohibit gun sales at Orange County Fairground. And in 2019, Governor Newsom signed into law AB 893 (Gloria) which ended gun shows at the Del Mar State Fairground.