Sacramento, CA—
On February 8th, Assemblymembers Robert Rivas (D-Salinas) and Adrin Nazarian (D-Los Angeles) introduced the Seismic Compliance Act of 2022, new legislation that will mandate hospitals to publicly post notices of their seismic compliance status. Slated as AB 1882, the Seismic Compliance Act will also require hospitals to report to state and local government agencies on their progress toward meeting the requirement for the year 2030 that hospitals remain functional after an earthquake.
“Seismic events are not a ‘what if’ but ‘when’ in California,”
said Assemblymember Robert Rivas.
“Despite having had decades to prepare for the 2030 Seismic Standards, many California hospitals are still structurally deficient as of today. Emergency management and the community at-large have a right to know if their hospitals are adequately built in order to best prepare for the next major earthquake. Transparency in this area will save lives.”
“As a state lawmaker who has prioritized seismic safety standards, I am proud to join my colleague, Assemblymember Robert Rivas, as a joint-author on AB 1882,”
said Assemblymember Adrin Nazarian.
“California hospitals serve an extremely vital role in our society, one that cannot be compromised at a time of a natural disaster. In order for them to insure the safety of healthcare workers and patients alike, they must be in compliance with, and accountable to, the state’s seismic safety building standards.”
“The ability of hospitals to remain open and functional in the aftermath of an earthquake literally could be the difference between life and death for Californians,”
said California Labor Federation Executive Secretary-Treasurer Art Pulaski
. “Seismic safety standards put in place decades ago gave hospitals ample time to make the necessary improvements to withstand devastating earthquakes. With the increasing probability of a large earthquake striking California in the near future, we must ensure that hospitals are transparent with their patients, workers, and communities on whether their hospital will be available to them when disaster strikes.”
###
Assemblymember Robert Rivas (D-Salinas) represents California’s 30th Assembly District, which includes all or portions of the cities and towns of Aromas, Big Sur, Chualar, Gilroy, Greenfield, Gonzales, Hollister, King City, Morgan Hill, Salinas, San Martin, San Juan Bautista, Soledad, Spreckels, and Watsonville.