Assemblymember Bryan to Chair New Select Committee
Sacramento, CA — Today, Assembly Speaker Anthony Rendon (D-Lakewood) announced the formation of the Select Committee on Poverty and Economic Inclusion. The select committee will be chaired by Assemblymember Isaac Bryan (D-Baldwin Hills), who also chairs the Assembly's Elections Committee.
"The Assembly is the legislative body where all Californians, regardless of economic status, have a voice. There is no more fitting place to examine these critical problems, and none better positioned to find and elevate lasting solutions. I'm confident that Assemblymember Bryan will guide this Committee in a way that is meaningful for all of California," said Speaker Rendon.
The Select Committee on Poverty and Economic Inclusion will be a forum to address the growing divide in prosperity across California. The Committee will also be a place where root causes of poverty are critically examined and contrasted with potential evidence-based, cross-sector, innovative and intersectional policy solutions.
"I want to thank Speaker Rendon for his leadership, and for appointing me to Chair the Assembly Select Committee on Poverty and Economic Inclusion. We are at a moment of inflection, and have a real opportunity to examine our basic choices that have shaped the structure, fairness, justice and efficiency of programs and policies across our public, nonprofit, philanthropic, and private sectors. This is a moment to take a hard look at the structural inequities stifling innovation, restricting opportunity, and impacting the economic, mental, and physical wellbeing of people all across California."
The members Select Committee on Poverty and Economic Inclusion are:
Assemblymember Rebeca Bauer-Kahan (D-Orinda)
Assemblymember Marc Berman (D-Palo Alto)
Assemblymember Tasha Boerner Horvath (D-Encinitas)
Assemblymember Vince Fong (R-Kern County)
Assemblymember Timothy S. Grayson (D-Concord)
Assemblymember Jacqui Irwin (D-Thousand Oaks)
Assemblymember James C. Ramos (D-Highland)
Assemblymember Luz M. Rivas (D-San Fernando Valley)
Assemblymember Robert Rivas (D-Salinas)
Assemblymember Akilah Weber, M.D. (D-San Diego)
###
CONTACT:
Caleb Rabinowitz,
caleb.rabinowitz@asm.ca.gov
916-319-2054