SACRAMENTO, CA
– Yesterday Assemblymember Gail Pellerin (D-28), introduced her first bill leaning on her almost three decade career as Santa Cruz County Clerk/Registrar of Voters. AB 292 would amend the Elections Code to update the format of No Party Preference (NPP) notices and applications for partisan ballots, and adds a write-in section for the office of President of the United States on NPP ballots. This will make it easier for NPP voters to request partisan ballots and crossover vote in partisan presidential primaries, if allowed by the political party.
“Many No Party Preference voters show up to vote on Election Day or open their ballots and are shocked to find no option to vote for President. AB 292 will give voters who are not registered with a political party an option to vote for a presidential candidate if the party allows NPP voters to vote in their party’s primary. We must do whatever we can to make it easier for people to vote and increase voter turnout,” said Assemblymember Pellerin.
This bill requires that the notices sent to each NPP voter contain a list of political parties that have authorized crossover voting, and next to each political party’s name, a box to mark indicating that the voter wishes to vote that party’s ballot. AB 292 maintains all previously provided ways of requesting a partisan ballot and adds the option to request one through text message if the county has established a system for processing such a request.
In the event that an NPP voter fails to request a partisan ballot for a presidential primary election, AB 292 would require a write-in space for President of the United States. If the voter writes in the name of a candidate who is not nominated by a party that authorizes crossover voting, the vote for that candidate shall not be counted.
# # #
Assemblymember Pellerin represents the 28th Assembly District, which includes Santa Cruz County and Santa Clara County. In Santa Cruz County, the District includes the North Coast communities of Davenport, Bonny Doon and Swanton, the cities of Scotts Valley and Santa Cruz, the San Lorenzo Valley, and portions of Soquel, Aptos, and Corralitos. In Santa Clara County, the District includes the Town of Los Gatos, cities of Monte Sereno and Morgan Hill, the communities of Lexington Hills, Willow Glen, Cambrian Village, Santa Teresa,the Almaden and Coyote valleys, and portions of Campbell, Gilroy, San Martin, Saratoga, South San Jose.