A bill to improve pedestrian, cyclist and driver safety, which is authored by Assemblymember Alex Lee, has been signed by the Governor.
AB 413 will make it easier for everyone on the street to see oncoming traffic by keeping 20 feet of an intersection or crosswalk’s approach side clear of stopped vehicles—a safety measure known as daylighting.
Intersections are especially dangerous, and annually, about a quarter of traffic fatalities and half of all traffic injuries in the U.S. occur around intersections,
according to the Federal Highway Administration.
“AB 413 will save lives and make our streets safer for everyone,” Assemblymember Lee said. “The signing of the legislation represents a simple, but important step forward to improving California’s road safety. California’s pedestrian fatality rate is nearly 25% higher than the national average. By increasing critical visibility of our streets, this bill will help prevent fatal accidents.”
Daylighting has been implemented across the United States, and in California, cities like San Francisco and Alameda have started adopting daylighting on their streets.
AB 413 is sponsored by Streets For All and CalBike.
"Streets For All is proud that the Governor has made pedestrian safety a priority with his signature of AB 413,” said Marc Vukcevich, Director of State Policy at Streets For All. “We thank him and Assemblymember Lee for taking steps to address the forty-year high of pedestrian deaths."
"CalBike applauds Governor Newsom for signing AB 413 and prioritizing pedestrians on California's streets,” said Jared Sanchez, Policy Director at CalBike. “As motor vehicles continue to dominate our streets and kill pedestrians at increasing rates, this is an important step to ensure our transportation system is safe for all users, especially the most vulnerable."
After new traffic safety laws are signed by the Governor, the California Highway Patrol compiles a list of the changes for the public. The California Department of Motor Vehicles also updates the Driver’s Handbook to reflect the changes. Further, the American Automobile Association will publish a list to inform the public.