IRVINE
– On Saturday, Assemblywoman Cottie Petrie-Norris (D—Irvine) and Second Harvest Food Bank of Orange County hosted a Harvest Solutions Farm Volunteer Event in Irvine to help harvest seasonal produce so that Orange County residents have consistent access to nutritious food. Volunteers harvested over 7,000 pounds of bell peppers that will be distributed in food boxes by Second Harvest Food Bank of Orange County to individual and families served by the food bank and local pantries.
“Second Harvest Food Bank of Orange County does so much work to feed tens of thousands of individuals and children each week who are struggling with food insecurity in our communities,” said Assemblywoman Cottie Petrie-Norris. “It was amazing to see all the families and young children come out to Harvest Solutions Farm to learn about community services and helping their neighbors in need.”
September is Hunger Action Month, an annual nationwide campaign that unites food banks and the public to inspire people to take action against hunger and to raise awareness for those facing food and nutritional insecurity in our communities. An estimated 267,000 individuals and 64,000 children in Orange County are food insecure.
"The need for food in Orange County remains high as we have seen elevated food prices due to inflation and the sunsetting of pandemic-era aid,” said Claudia Keller, CEO, Second Harvest Food Bank of Orange County. “During Hunger Action Month, we are especially grateful for the support from our elected officials to help raise awareness of the food insecurity that many of our O.C. neighbors are currently facing."
Since the launch in August 2021, Harvest Solutions Farm has produced over 4.4 million pounds of fresh, nutritious produce that has been distributed to those experiencing food and nutrition insecurity in our community. In April, Assemblywoman Petrie-Norris hosted her first Harvest Solutions Farm Volunteer Event with volunteers harvesting 5,500 pounds of broccolini and cabbage to help provide nutritious produce to families in need in Orange County.