SACRAMENTO, CA - Today,
Assemblywoman Sharon Quirk-Silva
(D-Fullerton) celebrated the successful passage of her bill, AB 1297, the Public Restrooms Act, on the Assembly Floor. The bill, which requires cities, charter cities, counties, and defined special districts to report their inventory of accessible public restrooms to the Department of Public Health, aims to improve the availability and accessibility of these facilities for all Californians.
“Restrooms are central to our daily personal lives and public infrastructure,” said Assemblywoman Quirk-Silva. “This bill ensures that our cities, counties, and the state accurately understands the availability and accessibility of this critical resource. By providing this information to the public, we strengthen our economy, enhance public health, and foster inclusivity for historically marginalized communities.”
Under AB 1297, the Department of Public Health will create a user-friendly website where the public can search for public restrooms by zip code. This innovative approach will empower individuals, including seniors, pregnant women, tourists, gig workers, delivery drivers, individuals experiencing homelessness, and those with specific disabilities, to easily locate the nearest public restroom and access this vital resource with dignity.
“Access to bathrooms has been a fundamental aspect of every civil rights movement, from the fight against segregated bathrooms in the 1960’s, to the fight for inclusive restrooms ongoing today,” noted Assemblywoman Quirk-Silva. “This bill continues that legacy by promoting equity, inclusion, and ensuring that everyone has equal access to essential facilities.”
AB 1297 received support from a diverse coalition of supporters, reflecting its broad benefits to the community. The bill will now advance to the Senate for consideration, where Assemblywoman Quirk-Silva looks forward to collaboration with her Senate colleagues to ensure its passage.
Assemblywoman Sharon Quirk-Silva represents the 67th Assembly District, which includes the Orange County communities of Anaheim, Buena Park, Cypress, Fullerton, and La Palma, as well as the Los Angeles County communities of Artesia
,
Cerritos, and Hawaiian Gardens.