Sacramento – Assemblymember David Alvarez (D-San Diego) introduced Assembly Bill’s 979, 991, and 1005 to streamline services and public programs for vulnerable Californians. The three proposed laws would help families of Long Term Care residents, children and families receiving CalFresh (nutritional support) and caring for family members in hospice.
“It is important that we modernize our government to better serve Californians, especially those impacted by outdated and antiquated procedures,” said
Assemblymember David Alvarez
. “Recipients of social service programs are some of the most vulnerable Californians and we should make sure that there are no gaps in access to these critical programs.”
AB 979: Better Communication and Access to Long Term Care Facilities through State Family Councils:
AB 979 would modernize regulations for family councils in long-term care facilities across the State of California by ensuring that meetings can occur electronically and complaints are addressed, and information is shared efficiently. Family councils are organized groups of family members and friends of long-term care facility residents who meet regularly to share information and discuss concerns about the quality of care in the facility. They play a representative role for residents in long-term care facilities.
AB 991: Increasing Access to CalFresh Benefits Through Easier Reporting to County Welfare Offices for Required Information and Reporting Changes:
AB 991 would ensure that government agencies administering social services are properly functioning and that the communication pathways are not disrupted for those in need of these critical programs. Today, recipients of these programs must provide their information, such as income or place of residence, only in person or via mail. State agencies like CalFresh deny over 50% of applications for “procedural reasons” like sending information via email.
“Making our government work more effectively means that we will be able to ensure there is no disruption in providing access to public benefit programs for recipients,” stated
Christopher Sanchez, Policy Advocate with the Western Center on Law and Poverty.
“We are excited to partner with Assemblymember Alvarez by co-sponsoring AB991, which will ensure Californians are no longer denied access to critical social safety net programs for utilizing email to report pertinent information to county offices.”
AB 1005: Expedite the Registration and Match Times for Those in Need of In- Home Supportive Services (IHSS):
AB 1005 will streamline the process of an IHSS caregiver being matched with a hospice care recipient. Often IHSS caregivers are prevented from providing necessary care to a hospice recipient due to a cumbersome bureaucratic process. This legislation is designed to aid those who need help at their most vulnerable time.