SACRAMENTO
- Today Assemblymembers Marc Berman (D-Menlo Park) and Luz Rivas (D-San Fernando Valley) recognized the week of December 4 as Computer Science Education Week in honor of Grace Hopper’s birthday on December 9. Grace Murray Hopper, one of the first women in the field of computer science, engineered new programming languages and pioneered standards for computer systems which laid the foundations for many advancements in computer science.
“Computer Science Education Week highlights the crucial role that computer science plays in equipping our students with the skills they need to succeed in tomorrow's digitally driven world,”
said Assemblymember Marc Berman.
“Too many California students grow up in the shadows of California’s famous tech companies, yet go to schools that don’t even offer them the opportunity to learn the skills they need to one day work there. Expanding access to computer science courses will not only help close the gender and diversity gap in tech fields, it will also help train the future workforce needed for California to remain competitive both with other states and other nations.”
“During Computer Science Education Week, we are encouraging children with an interest in technology to fuel their passion. California is a global leader in technology and for youth yearning for exposure in this industry, and the career opportunities available to them are endless,”
stated Assemblywoman Luz Rivas.
“However, to ensure K-12 students are equipped with these essential 21st century skills, we must expand access to high-quality computer science courses. Expanding access to these classes statewide will continue to bolster and diversify California's leading tech industry.”
“Code.org is excited to celebrate Computer Science with Hour of Code during  Computer Science Education Week, which is an opportunity for students to receive a free introduction to computer science through fun activities and videos along with student peers around the world, while celebrating and promoting Computer Science Education Week,”
said Code.org Director of Government Affairs, Codeye Woody.
Computer Science Education Week is an annual call to action to inspire K-12 students to learn computer science, advocate for equity in computer science education, and celebrate the contributions of students, teachers, and partners to the field.
Contact: bermanpress@asm.ca.gov
###