Sacramento
– Assemblymember Dr. Corey A. Jackson announces the introduction of a comprehensive Anti-Racism Bill Package designed to address the systemic barriers faced by communities of color in California. The package includes four separate bills aimed at promoting equity and justice across the state.
ACA-7: Increasing Life Expectancy, Education and Economic Opportunity
This bill offers a solution to persistent disparities in health, education, and economic outcomes for ethnic communities by allowing the Governor to issue waivers to public agencies for research-based and culturally specific interventions.
Assembly Bill 1077: Public Agency Antiracism & Equity Audit
This bill requires all state agencies and counties to conduct comprehensive antiracism audits and establish action plans to rectify deficiencies within specific timelines approved by the State Controller. If progress is not shown within 3 years, a penalty or fine will be levied or the agency could face conservatorship by a judge.
Assembly Bill 1079: Combat Hate Crimes
This bill includes the creation of a Hate Crimes Intervention Unit within the Department of Public Health and the establishment of the California Ad Council to address hate crimes and promote diversity and inclusivity in California.
Assembly Bill 1078: Diversity Textbooks in School Curriculum
This bill prohibits the State Board of Education from approving textbooks that do not reflect the diversity of California, ensuring that students have access to materials that accurately represent their experiences and identities. It also prohibits local school districts from banning curriculum, instructional material, or textbooks without State Board of Education approval.
"As a state, we have a responsibility to create a more equitable and inclusive society for all Californians," said Assemblymember Dr. Corey A. Jackson. "This Anti-Racism Bill Package represents a crucial step towards achieving that goal and promoting justice and equality for all communities by truly creating a proactive antiracist, antihate, and antixenophobic state."
Assemblymember Dr. Corey A. Jackson is committed to working with stakeholders and communities to ensure that these bills become law and provide meaningful benefits to the people of California.