SACRAMENTO, CA—
Speaker Robert Rivas (D-Salinas) introduced a historic and diverse new leadership team last week, appointing more than two dozen Caucus Members — who bring tremendous expertise and unique lived experiences — to significant positions in the California State Assembly.
Making History: The New Leadership Team
23 women in leadership: including chairs of Appropriations, Privacy, Rules and Utilities
14 women of color in leadership: including chairs of Health, Labor and Transportation
31 Assembly members of color in leadership: including nearly two-thirds of committee chairs
18 California Latino Legislative Caucus members in leadership: including chairs of the Labor, Rules and Caucus Chair
Every Assembly Black Legislative Caucus member who will return after the 2024 session appointed to leadership: including chairs of Budget Subcommittees, Health, Transportation, Natural Resources and Public Safety
6 California Asian & Pacific Islander Legislative Caucus members in leadership: including Judiciary, Human Services and Higher Education
4 members of the California Legislative LGBTQ Caucus in leadership: including Housing, Human Services and Budget Subcommittee on Human Services, and Caucus Chair
30 leaders from Southern California
What the California Legislative Women’s Caucus says
“We commend Speaker Rivas for his recent appointments. These appointments reach a new record for women serving as the Chair of an Assembly committee. It is proof that Speaker Rivas believes in entrusting and empowering women with positions of leadership, striving not just for representation but for parity. We celebrate the recognition of what these women bring to the table and are confident they are excellent choices to represent their communities and the people of California.”
—
Chair Senator Nancy Skinner (D-Berkeley) and Vice-Chair Assemblymember Cecilia Aguiar-Curry (D-Winters)
Assemblymember Lori Wilson (D-Suisun City), Transportation committee leader and chair of California Legislative Black Caucus
“I thank Speaker Rivas for hi
s commitment to ensuring Black Californians have a strong voice in the Legislature by appointing Black legislators to key leadership positions in the Assembly.  The appointments include influential Committees such as Health, Transportation, Natural Resources, Public Safety, and the Budget Subcommittees on both Health and Human Services. These leaders hail from diverse parts of California and will not only benefit Black Californians, but all residents of our state. Let’s get to work!”
Assemblymember Mike Fong (D-Alhambra), vice-chair of California Asian American and Pacific Islander Legislative Caucus and Higher Education committee leader
“I would like to thank Speaker Rivas for his appointment of AAPI legislators to key leadership positions in the Assembly. AAPIs are one of the fastest-growing populations in the state. We look forward to working closely with the Speaker to address issues that impact all Californians, including our diverse AAPI and immigrant communities.”
Assemblymember Sabrina Cervantes (D-Riverside), chair of California Latino Legislative Caucus
“The California State Assembly’s diversity is its greatest strength, and Speaker Rivas’ commitment to uplift Latino voices and lived experiences is a significant step toward maximizing the Legislature’s ability to deliver for everyone in our Golden State. As Chair of the Latino Legislative Caucus, I look forward to collaborating with the Speaker’s leadership team to ensure a brighter future for all California residents, especially our vast and diverse Latino communities in every corner of our state.”
Assemblymember Chris Ward (D-San Diego), vice-chair of California Legislative LGBTQ Caucus and Housing committee leader
“I’m proud to be appointed Chair of the Assembly Housing and Community Development Committee by Speaker Robert Rivas and to continue my work as Vice Chair of the California Legislative LGBTQ Caucus. Making housing more affordable and providing support for homelessness solutions is one of our most important issues facing Californians today and into the future. I recognize the need to be stronger to increase the affordable housing supply throughout the state and make the dream of owning a home a reality for working Californians once again. I also look forward to working with the LGBTQ Caucus next year to protect equality and guarantee that California remains a safe place for those seeking care or refuge from harm with Speaker Rivas as a strong ally.”
More Information & Next Steps
The California State Assembly will reconvene on Wednesday, January 3.
For more information on
leadership and committees
, or to schedule interviews with members of the new California State Assembly leadership team, please email the Speaker’s Director of Communications Nick Miller: Nick.Miller@asm.ca.gov.