SACRAMENTO
– Assemblywoman Soria’s AB 1350, AB 1647, and AB 1745 were unanimously passed on the Assembly floor today.
AB 1350, the Capitol Park Veterans Memorial Fund, establishes a fund, administered by CalVet, for the purpose of maintenance and rehabilitation of veteran’s memorials in the State Capitol. Several veteran’s memorials surround the Capitol, including the Vietnam War Memorial, Mexican-American War Memorial, California American Portuguese Veterans Memorial, among others. The Vietnam War Memorial was vandalized in 2020, and with no funding or responsibility accorded to any state agency or department, has gone unrepaired. This bill would fix this issue, and protect and conserve our veteran’s memorials that honor the sacrifice of our brave fallen soldiers.
“We must never forget the men and women who know all too much the cost of our freedom, for their service to this country is the greatest gift of all,” said Assemblywoman Soria. “The stories of their sacrifices live on in the memories of their loved ones and through inscriptions on memorials and plaques dedicated to the legacy of their generation.”
AB 1647 assists veterans in the criminal legal system by expanding the number of Veterans Treatment Courts (VTCs). VTCs provide an alternative to incarceration with an understanding of
the unique needs of veterans who have been charged with a crime, with a focus on substance abuse and mental health treatment.
“California is home to 1.8 million veterans, and we must do all that we can to support them and their varying needs through mental health care and substance abuse treatment,” Assemblywoman Soria said.
AB 1745 raises the annual income eligibility ceiling under the College Fee Waiver for Veteran Dependents from the federal poverty level, to a level that is better fit for California. The bill will ensure more veteran families qualify for the college fee waiver program.
###
Assemblywoman Esmeralda Soria represents the 27th Assembly District which includes communities in Fresno, Madera, and Merced counties.