SACRAMENTO — A bill by Assemblymember Dawn Addis (D-Morro Bay) to tackle student homelessness and meet housing demand was signed by Governor Newsom this past week. Assembly Bill 358 – known as the California Community College Housing Act– is the first of Assemblymember Addis' authored bills to be signed into law.
"I am thrilled that Governor Newsom has signed the California Community College Housing Act. Housing insecurity is a worsening and pervasive problem across our campuses. This bill will help boost the housing supply at our community colleges, providing much-needed housing to thousands of students across the state."
Assembly Bill 358 allows community colleges to accommodate student housing needs by exempting architectural plans from the required approval by the Department of General Services' (DGS) Division of State Architect (DSA), creating parity with faculty campus housing.
This bill will become law on January 1, 2024.
Dawn Addis was elected to the California State Assembly in 2022 to represent the 30th Assembly District. Dawn is a special education teacher who began teaching in public schools over 20 years ago, and holds a Master of Arts (MA) degree in special education from San Francisco State University. She has teaching credentials in elementary education, secondary education and special education and is fluent in Spanish. Dawn's long record of community involvement includes co-founding the Women's March in San Luis Obispo and being a Planned Parenthood Central Coast Action Fund board member. In 2018, she won her first elected office, Morro Bay City Council, and served from 2018 to 2022. Dawn is the first Democrat to represent the majority of San Luis Obispo County in the State Assembly since 1947. She is also the first Democrat from San Luis Obispo County to serve in the State Assembly since 1922 and the first Democratic woman ever to hold this seat. Dawn and her husband Marcus have raised two children on the Central Coast and they have one rescue cat named Oppenheimer.
CONTACT:
Julie Cravotto, 916-319-2030