LA PALMA, CA – After more than a decade of community organizing, legislative action, and passionate hard work from veterans,
Assemblywoman Sharon Quirk-Silva (D – Fullerton)
announced the following update to those who have been involved in the establishment of the Southern California Veterans Cemetery (SCVC). Coinciding as the nation prepares to celebrate Veterans Day on November 11th, this builds on the work
done over the years to fulfill the promise made to Orange County Veterans and their families.
“
I have advocated alongside Veterans, local leaders, community advocates, and my legislative colleagues in support of a Southern California Veterans cemetery site in Orange County since 2014. I humbling thank all Veterans for their service to our state, country and community.
I am pleased to inform you that the site assessment is on track for completion later this month,” said
Assemblywoman Sharon Quirk-Silva.
“While the exact date is yet to be determined, as soon as the study is finalized my office will provide information about the findings and address the next steps involved in the process.”
Orange County is the state’s largest county without a Veteran’s cemetery. All thirty-four cities, including the County, have all passed resolutions in support of the project at the Gypsum Canyon location in Anaheim. Furthermore, regional and notable Veterans organizations such as American Legion- Department of California, AMVETS, Gold Star Mothers Inc., and Vietnam Veterans of America all stood in support of the project.
Currently, the site assessment has had no major obstacles of note in the findings, and anticipates having a site evaluation shortly. Once complete, it will be able to determine the expected cost of the site project, which will allow a better understanding of how federal grants, as well as funding from existing sources, could support this endeavor. The state can apply to the United States Department of Veterans Affairs (USDVA) Cemetery Grant Program for the SCVC in July of 2024. Subsequently, the expectation for the grant to be awarded would come in October of 2024.
“We've had our twists and turns, our ups and downs and there have been literally tears shed over trying to get this to this point,” continued
Assemblywoman Quirk-Silva.
“I am incredibly proud of the
work our broad, bipartisan, community-powered coalition has done to secure this much needed and long awaited final resting place in Orange County for the men and women who courageously served our Nation in the armed forces
.”
Assemblywoman Sharon Quirk-Silva represents the 67th Assembly District, which includes the Orange County communities of Anaheim, Buena Park, Cypress, Fullerton, and La Palma, as well as the Los Angeles County communities of Artesia
,
Cerritos, and Hawaiian Gardens.