Perris
– On Saturday, April 29th Assemblymember Dr. Corey Jackson invited the next Speaker of the California State Assembly Robert Rivas to tour the 60th Assembly District to learn more about the region's affordable housing projects, economic development, and community. The visit was an important opportunity to engage with the local community and hear firsthand the challenges they face. The tour encompassed three key locations: The Courtyards at Cottonwood in Moreno Valley, the Elected Officials Brunch, and Downtown Perris. This was a chance for the Speaker-Designate to gain a deeper understanding of the issues affecting the region and work towards creating a better future for all.
“The Inland Empire region is facing many of our state’s biggest challenges as it relates to housing, transportation, infrastructure, and more, at a disproportionate rate,” said Speaker-Designate Robert Rivas (D-Salinas). “I am proud that this community has a champion in Assemblymember Dr. Corey Jackson, who is fighting every day to ensure that the Inland Empire not only overcomes these challenges, but thrives. I’d also like to thank Dr. Jackson and his team for hosting a valuable and insightful tour of his district.”
The tour began in Downtown Perris, a hub for economic development in the area. They learned about the city's efforts to make Downtown Perris a destination, and the economic development projects that are underway to create more job opportunities for the local community.
Mayor Michael Vargas of Perris expressed his gratitude for the Speaker-Designate's visit, saying, "We are thrilled to have Speaker-Designate Robert Rivas join us in Perris to learn about our rich history, affordable housing projects, and economic development. His visit underscores the importance of community engagement in building a better future."
The second stop on the tour was the Elected Officials Brunch, which provided an opportunity for elected community members to meet with the Speaker-Designate and discuss issues facing the area. This was a great opportunity for the Speaker-Designate to connect with the local community and hear firsthand the challenges they face.
The last stop on the tour was, the Courtyards at Cottonwood, an 81-unit gated community developed by The Rancho Belago Developers, Inc. The community features 60 units set aside for lower-income families, and 20 units reserved for lower-income seniors. This project is a shining example of what can be achieved when developers prioritize affordable housing for underprivileged communities.
“I was honored Speaker Designate Rivas was able to see firsthand the incredible work Moreno Valley is doing in regard to economic development, cultural heritage, and inclusive housing,” said Mayor Cabrera. “His visit highlights the importance of investing in our communities to create a better future for all. I want to thank Assemblymember Dr. Corey Jackson for organizing and attending this tour.”
Assemblymember Dr. Corey Jackson expressed his appreciation for the Speaker-Designate's visit, saying, "As a representative of the 60th Assembly District in the Inland Empire, it's important to me that we bring leaders from around the state to gain a deeper understanding of the issues facing our community. This tour, which included stops at the Courtyards at Cottonwood, the Elected Officials Brunch, and Downtown Perris, was an excellent opportunity to showcase our region's community and highlight the progress we've made in creating affordable housing and promoting economic development. I'm grateful to Speaker-Designate Robert Rivas for taking the time to visit our district and for his commitment to addressing the challenges we face."
The tour provided a great opportunity for the Speaker-Designate to learn more about the housing, economic development, and the region. By engaging with the local community and learning from their experiences, the Speaker-Designate can better understand the challenges they face and work towards creating a better future for all.
During the tour Assemblymember Dr. Corey Jackson was joined by Majority Leader Eloise Reyes and Assemblymember Sabrina Cervantes.