SACRAMENTO, Calif. --- (June 15, 2023) – Assemblymember Mike A. Gipson (D-Carson), Chair of the Select Committee on Ports and Goods Movement, and Assemblymember Josh Lowenthal respond to the new six-year contract agreement reached between the Pacific Maritime Association and the International Longshore and Warehouse Association.
“As Chair of the Select Committee on Ports and Goods Movement, it is my duty to advocate for the betterment of our Ports, so I am thrilled to see that ILWU and PMA have come to an agreement and continue to move this industry forward,” said
Assemblymember Mike A. Gipson (D-Carson).
“The new 6-year contract is a testament to the collaborative efforts and dedication of all parties involved. It reflects their commitment to fair and equitable labor practices, improved working conditions, and enhanced job security for ILWU members. This industry is the backbone and engine of our economy in our communities, and I am thrilled that these two great organizations have reached an agreement.”
“Pending full membership ratification, yesterday’s agreement between the ILWU and the PMA is a huge leap in the right direction that will allow our ports complex to be an economic engine to our region and California’s economy,” said
Assemblymember Josh Lowenthal
. “I want to thank Acting Labor Secretary Julie Su for her engagement, and I look forward to working with the ILWU Membership and the PMA to ensure that we prepare for the upcoming holiday shipping season and regain our foothold as the world’s most powerful and green ports complex.”
ILWU and PMA came to a tentative agreement on a 6-year contract yesterday, with assistance from acting U.S. Secretary of Labor Julie Su. The ILWU represents approximately 20,000 dockworkers employed at ports along the West Coast of the United States, while the PMA represents the employers of these dockworkers. Both organizations have a long-standing commitment to fostering a productive and mutually beneficial relationship, ensuring the smooth functioning of ports and the global supply chain.