El Monte, CA
– Assemblymember Mike Fong (D-Alhambra), in partnership with LA County Supervisor Hilda L. Solis, announced $1 million in state funding towards crucial facilities upgrades at Norwood Library. The funds were secured by Assemblymember Fong in the 2023-2024 California state budget.
“Libraries are at the heart of our community. For many, libraries are a lifeline, connecting them to the internet, to social services, to a safe space to spend time. I’m proud to have secured $1 million in state funding to update and modernize Norwood Library for future generations of El Monte residents to enjoy,” said Assemblymember Fong.
“Libraries offer educational enrichment, serve as vote centers, and provide a safe space for all to gather and learn. However, as we face historic learning loss from the COVID-19 pandemic, libraries are key to bringing our children and communities back up to speed. This is why I am so grateful that Assemblymember Mike Fong was able to grant my earmark request of $1 million. With this funding, coupled with the $600K I have allocated, we will ensure that the facility is one of hope for our community. I look forward to the day we can open the doors to a newly renovated Norwood Library,” said Supervisor Solis.
“We sincerely appreciate Assemblymember Mike Fong and Supervisor Hilda L. Solis’ efforts to secure state funding for Norwood Library,” said Library Director Skye Patrick. “With their support, we will have the opportunity to make crucial upgrades to Norwood Library that will benefit the customers who depend on this beloved community resource.”
Norwood Library is located at 4550 Peck Road, El Monte. The $1 million in state funds is on top of $600,000 Supervisor Solis has provided in discretionary funds to complete predevelopment activities. Facility upgrades may include ADA compliance updates, new furniture, additional outlets for mobile devices, and more.
###
Assemblymember Mike Fong represents the 49th Assembly District, which includes the cities of Alhambra, Arcadia, El Monte, Monterey Park, Rosemead, San Gabriel, San Marino, South Pasadena and Temple City, and the unincorporated areas of Pasadena and San Gabriel.  He serves as the Chair of the Assembly Higher Education Committee and the Assembly Vice Chair of the Asian American Pacific Islander Legislative Caucus.