SACRAMENTO, CA – Assemblymember Connolly (D-San Rafael) announced that Sausalito-based Bridge the Gap was selected as Assembly District (AD) 12’s 2023 California Nonprofit of the Year. The mission of Bridge the Gap is to provide comprehensive educational, social and emotional resources to underserved students in Marin City and Southern Marin. Their goal is to ensure that all students graduate high school, and achieve their greatest potential through college completion or other pathways to economic sustainability and independence. Their vision is for all students to achieve their greatest potential with equitable access, opportunities, and choice. Research continues to demonstrate that the most powerful way for under-resourced and first-generation students to achieve a lifetime of increased opportunity and earnings is through higher education. It can be a game changer.
“As a nonprofit, Bridge the Gap has shown exemplary leadership in addressing crucial issues such as educational equity and community development,” said Assemblymember Connolly. “Their innovative programs have empowered countless individuals, ensuring that no one is left behind. This recognition also highlights the extraordinary efforts of Bridge the Gap's incredible team and volunteers. Their selflessness and compassion have made a profound impact on the lives they touch, and their unwavering commitment to serving others is an inspiration to us all.”
“We are honored to have been selected by Assemblymember Connolly for this award” said Lisa Raffel, Executive Director at Bridge the Gap. “For 28 years, Bridge the Gap has dedicated itself to narrowing educational disparities in Marin County through after-school academic and college access support for Marin City students. We look forward to our partnership with the schools and community-based organizations in Marin to broaden our impact and collectively advance educational equity in the county.”
This is the eighth year of the California Nonprofit of the Year initiative, a state-wide effort honoring the critical role nonprofit organizations play in California.