SANTA CLARITA – Assemblywoman Pilar Schiavo today announced the support of the Santa Clarita Chamber of Commerce on five crucial pieces of legislation, tackling issues like housing, homelessness, support for low income families, water protection and electric vehicle infrastructure.
"I'm so glad to have the support of the Santa Clarita Chamber of Commerce for  these five important bills. From ending the foster-care- to-homelessness pipeline, to removing red tape and cost barriers for low income families, our 2023 bill package is focused on making the lives of our community members better, and having the support of the Chamber in our efforts goes a long way to ensuring their success."
The bills supported by the Chamber include:
AB 464: Vital Records Access for Low Income and Unhouse Folks
AB 519: Streamline Affordable Housing Development Funding
AB 823: Electric Charging Roads and Parking Lots
AB 963: End the Foster Care-to-Homelessness Pipeline
AB 1631: Community Water Protection
"The Santa Clarita Valley Chamber of Commerce works on behalf of its members to maintain a healthy and vibrant business climate in what has been ranked one of the most business friendly cities in California. We are proud to support AB 464, AB 519, AB 823, and AB 963, and AB 1631 authored by Assemblywoman Schiavo, which will help to create a positive environment for the SCV business community," said Ivan Volschenk, President and CEO of SCV Chamber of Commerce, "The SCV Chamber is always excited when good legislation is created that we can support for our business community. We continue to take an active role in helping shape legislative policies that support our local business community."
Assemblywoman Pilar Schiavo was elected to the California State Assembly in November of 2022 to represent the 40th Assembly District, representing the Northwest San Fernando Valley and the Santa Clarita Valley. Upon her election, she was appointed as Assistant Majority Whip by the Speaker of the Assembly. Prior to her election, Assemblywoman Schiavo was a Nurse Advocate and Small Business Owner who worked in the labor movement for more than 20 years. Throughout her career, Assemblywoman Schiavo helped deliver healthcare, including reproductive healthcare, to more than one million people. In the Northwest San Fernando Valley, she co-founded an organization that helped secure housing for Veterans experiencing homelessness, has delivered more than 50,000 meals to people in need, and increased resources to help keep our communities safe. Assemblywoman Schiavo lives in Chatsworth with her daughter Sofia where they love to hike in the Santa Susana Mountains.