SACRAMENTO, Calif. — Today, Assemblymember Tasha Boerner (D-Encinitas) recognized The League of Amazing Programmers at the State Capitol. Each year, California Assemblymembers and State Senators select a nonprofit from their district to be recognized for their work to provide services to those in need, promote social change, and improve the quality of life in their communities.
“It was a privilege to recognize The League of Amazing Programmers for the critical work they are doing in my district to promote equity in our digital age,” said Assemblymember Tasha Boerner. “Their dedication to helping our youth, especially girls and underrepresented communities, is transforming lives throughout San Diego.”
The League teaches kids and teens how to code through eight different levels that range from beginner to certified programmers. Their mission is to help more youth, including girls and underserved students, acquire the skills and education needed to be leaders and contribute to the workforce of the 21st century. They aim to create a positive impact on all students by helping them develop critical thinking skills and self-confidence through learning computer programming.
“We’ve been around for over fifteen years now, and it’s such an honor to be recognized at the Capitol by Assemblymember Tasha Boerner,” said Sarah Tuakli Cooper, Executive Director of The League of Amazing Programmers. “San Diego is a growing tech hub and it’s really important that we make these incoming opportunities accessible to underserved communities. We want programmers to look like the diversity of San Diego County.”
The League seeks to address unfilled programming jobs in the United States by getting students interested in coding at a young age, further developing our workforce and economy.
###
Assemblymember Tasha Boerner represents the 77th District, which encompasses Carlsbad, Encinitas, Solana Beach, Del Mar, and the coastal communities of La Jolla south to Downtown and Coronado. You can learn more about Assemblymember Boerner at
a77.asmdc.org
,
Facebook
,
Instagram
, or
Twitter
.