Torrance, CA –
Assemblymember Al Muratsuchi (D-Torrance), Chair of the Assembly Education Committee, issued the following statement regarding the Governor's proposed 2023-24 State Budget:
"I welcome the Governor's fiscally prudent budget proposal that focuses on protecting classroom funding. As California emerges from the pandemic, our schools are engaged in the monumental challenges of learning recovery as well as a student mental health crisis. It is time to provide the necessary resources for our schools to successfully implement existing programs focused on learning recovery and student wellness.
"I support the Governor's commitment to provide the highest ever per-pupil funding in California -- $17,500 in state funding, $23,700 from all funds -- as well as an 8.13 percent Cost of Living Adjustment. I applaud the Governor's continued commitment to important initiatives such as community schools, universal transitional kindergarten, after school learning programs, and universal nutrition. I look forward to the Governor and Legislature working together to further develop the Governor's proposed Local Control Funding Formula (LCFF) equity multiplier to help close achievement gaps for student groups with persistent disparities in educational outcomes.
"As Chair of the Assembly Education Committee, I will continue to fight to protect classroom funding so that all students can attend good public schools in their neighborhood, regardless of where they live. I am proud to have championed record new investments in public education, particularly last year's historic increase to the LCFF base grant. I look forward to working with the Governor and Legislature to continue to make public education our state's top priority."
Assemblymember Al Muratsuchi represents California's 66th Assembly District, which includes El Segundo, Gardena, Hermosa Beach, Lomita, Los Angeles, Manhattan Beach, Palos Verdes Estates, Rancho Palos Verdes, Redondo Beach, Rolling Hills, Rolling Hills Estates, San Pedro and Torrance. Muratsuchi is Chair of the Assembly Education Committee.
CONTACT:
Kerry Jacob, 310-806-0893