SACRAMENTO –
Today,
Assemblywoman Sharon Quirk-Silva
received the California State Auditor report of CalOptima, the Orange County organized health system for low-income children, adults, seniors, and people with disabilities. The results of the audit reveal serious deficiencies in the management and oversight of the organization.
“When, on average, 45 people who are experiencing homeless and in need of vital healthcare services are dying each month in Orange County, it is unconscionable that CalOptima, an organization entrusted with the health and well-being of our community, has amassed an unplanned surplus of over $675 million,” said
Assemblywoman Quirk-Silva
. “The failure of CalOptima to use these funds to improve healthcare services for the most vulnerable members of our society can only be characterized as a dereliction of duty, and their conduct warrants serious scrutiny and accountability.”
The report, released by the California State Auditor, detailed a number of issues with the management and operations of the county service.
The audit reveals that CalOptima accumulated surplus funds that it should have used to improve services and retained a larger share of funds obtained through intergovernmental transfer (IGT) than other managed care plans. The report also highlighted the organization's failure to consistently monitor the effective use of IGT funds, and specified that CalOptima hiring practices did not follow best practices, indicating a lack of accountability and transparency.
“The people of Orange County deserve better than this. CalOptima must take immediate action to address the issues identified in this audit,” continued Assemblywoman Quirk-Silva. “The health and well-being of our community depends on it.”
In light of the audit's release, Assemblywoman Quirk-Silva is calling upon CalOptima to take swift action to address the issues raised and implement necessary reforms to prevent similar issues from arising in the future.
Assemblywoman Sharon Quirk-Silva represents the 67th Assembly District, which includes the Orange County communities of Anaheim, Artesia, Buena Park, Cerritos, Cypress, Fullerton, Hawaiian Gardens, and La Palma.