(Sacramento) Last week, Assemblymember David Alvarez was appointed Chair of the Assembly Budget Subcommittee on Education Finance by California State Assembly Speaker Robert Rivas. The Subcommittee is responsible for examining and evaluating the appropriate allocation and prioritization of funding toward California’s education system.
“Our students deserve a strong educational foundation, and delivering this is a primary responsibility of the state Legislature,”
Speaker Robert Rivas said.
“Assemblymember Alvarez shares this mission and is deeply committed to supporting our children, schools, and educational institutions. I have the utmost confidence in David’s leadership and look forward to working with him to ensure California offers the most robust education opportunities possible.”
“I am honored and grateful to have been appointed as the Chair of the Assembly Budget Subcommittee on Education Finance by Speaker Robert Rivas,”
said Assemblymember David Alvarez.
“I am excited to lead important discussions on how we can enhance our education system by building and investing in schools ranging from preschool to higher education. Additionally, we must support educators so that students can overcome the challenges from learning loss to mental health.”
Assemblymember Alvarez previously served as a member of the Subcommittee and has placed a high emphasis on creating new educational opportunities for all Californians. Last session, he led the passing of AB 91, which established a 5-year binational pilot program to help eliminate the obstacle of high tuition costs for low-income students residing in the California-Mexican border area. Additionally, he obtained $25 million in funding for the first new library in the City of Chula Vista in more than three decades. The Assemblymember is a graduate of California public schools and an alum of San Diego State University.
The Subcommittee, led by Chair Alvarez, will explore the state's education financing in addition to reviewing concerns such as long-term enrollment for higher education, student retention in our community colleges, tuition and school costs, student housing, and campus safety. Furthermore, the Subcommittee will review the potential expansion of funding for transitional kindergarten, arts education, special education, and extended learning opportunities.
###
The 80th Assembly District includes the communities of Barrio Logan, Logan Heights, Sherman Heights, Bonita, Lincoln Acres, Otay Mesa and San Ysidro, along with the cities of Chula Vista, National City and Imperial Beach.