SACRAMENTO
- “Late last Thursday evening the Assembly wrapped up legislative business for the first of its two year session. Nearly 1100 bills were sent to the Governor this year. He has until October 14 to sign or veto.
This year proved to be successful in maintaining a balanced budget, despite a greater than $34 billion shortfall. In addition we passed SB 14 (Grove) which makes human trafficking a “strike felony,” a bill I was happy to support. In addition we passed a $6.4 billion Behavioral Health Bond, which includes $1 billion set aside for veterans to finance permanent behavioral health treatment and housing for individuals experiencing homelessness or at risk of homelessness with severe behavioral health challenges.
I was also proud to co-author several pieces of legislation including:
Women’s Health
AB 230 (Reyes)
Which expands the requirement that schools serving students in grades 6 through 12 stock specified restrooms with menstrual products to include schools serving students in grades 3 to 5.
SB 345 (Skinner)
Which enacts various safeguards against the enforcement of other states’ laws that prohibit, or criminalize a person, provider, or other entity in California that offers reproductive health care services.
Supporting Kids & Families
AB 393 (Luz Rivas)
Which requires the Director of the California Department of Social Services to develop procedures for general or migrant childcare and development contractors to identify and report data on dual language learners.
AB 1015 (Calderon)
Which would create a statewide diaper and wipe distribution program for low-income families.
Fentanyl & Public Safety
AB 889 (Joe Patterson)
Which would require a local educational agency, county office of education, and charter schools to annually inform parents, or guardians of the dangers associated with using synthetic drugs, such as fentanyl, and post this information on their respective internet websites.
AB 1060 (Ortega)
Which would require coverage of prescription, or nonprescription naloxone hydrochloride and all other FDA approved medication for the complete or partial reversal of an opioid overdose.
SB 55 (Umberg)
Which would prohibit motor vehicle dealers from selling a vehicle equipped with a catalytic converter unless the converter has been permanently marked with the vehicle’s identification number.
Business & Workers
AB 1217 (Gabriel)
Which preserves important flexibility so that restaurants can maintain outdoor dining in an efficient and affordable manner.
SB 822 (Durazo)
Which would create the California Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act to assist state agencies in advancing high quality jobs with investments in the broadband, energy, resources, technology, and transportation sectors.
Water & the Environment
AB 30 (Ward)
Which would require the Department of Water Resources to utilize all information generated by the Atmospheric Rivers Program to better manage reservoirs to improve flood protection and capture water generated by atmospheric rivers and other storms.
SB 659 (Ashby)
Which would require the Department of Water Resources to provide recommendations to develop additional groundwater recharge opportunities that increase the recharge of the state’s groundwater basins.
Protecting Democracy
AB 421 (Bryan)
Reduces confusion by requiring, for a state referendum, that voters be asked to choose between the options "Keep the law" or "Overturn the law" rather than being asked to vote "Yes" or "No." Also requires the top campaign funders of an effort to qualify a state referendum to be listed in the state voter information guide.
SB 52 (Durazo)
Requires the City of Los Angeles to establish an independent redistricting commission to adjust the district boundaries for the city council.
I am proud of the work we were able to accomplish this year and was especially pleased to work with my colleagues across the aisle and happy to co-author and otherwise support common sense measures that benefit all Californians.”
###
Assemblywoman Pilar Schiavo was elected to the California State Assembly in November of 2022 to represent the 40th Assembly District, representing the Northwest San Fernando Valley and the Santa Clarita Valley. Upon her election, she was appointed as Assistant Majority Whip by the Speaker of the Assembly and now serves as Chair of the Assembly Committee on Military and Veterans Affairs. Prior to her election, Assemblywoman Schiavo was a Nurse Advocate and Small Business Owner who worked in the labor movement for more than 20 years. Throughout her career, Assemblywoman Schiavo helped deliver healthcare, including reproductive healthcare, to more than one million people. In the Northwest San Fernando Valley, she co-founded an organization that helped secure housing for Veterans experiencing homelessness, has delivered more than 50,000 meals to people in need, and increased resources to help keep our communities safe. Assemblywoman Schiavo lives in Chatsworth with her daughter Sofia where they love to hike in the Santa Susana Mountains.