SACRAMENTO
― Speaker Robert Rivas announced the appointment of Assemblymember Liz Ortega as the new Chair of the California Assembly Labor and Employment Committee. As a labor leader of over 20 years, Asm. Ortega’s appointment brings hard-earned expertise to the committee’s work.
"I am honored that Speaker Rivas has entrusted me with this responsibility, but we have much work to do to raise standards for workers across California," said Assemblywoman Liz Ortega. "
Latinas earn 54 cents for every dollar earned by non-Hispanic white men.
And as workers have seen relentless cuts to pension and retirement benefits, one-third of women between the ages of 65 and 84 are forced to work after the age of retirement.”
“In the fourth largest economy in the world, it’s a disgrace that half of women between 55 and 65 have ZERO savings, and women over 65 are 80% more likely to be impoverished than men,” continued Asm. Ortega. “We will bring employers, workers, and policy makers together to ensure that the American Dream doesn’t die in California.”
“The Committee on Labor fights for essential workers’ rights and fair pay, and Assemblymember Ortega’s long and impactful history as a labor organizer gives me full confidence in Liz for this important position,” Speaker Robert Rivas said. “I’m grateful to Assemblymember Kalra for his hard work to make sure Californians are being compensated fairly, and I look forward to working with Liz to implement her ideas and initiatives during the upcoming legislative session.“
Asm. Ortega is a sitting member of the Assembly Labor Committee. In the 2023 legislative session, she authored the Workplace Readiness Act (AB 800), a first-in-the-nation law which requires California schools to teach high school students about their workplace rights, union apprenticeship opportunities, and how to join a union.
Prior to being elected to the State Assembly in 2022, Asm. Ortega was the first Latina elected to the Alameda Labor Council, which she led through the pandemic, winning campaigns for hazard pay and COVID protections for essential workers. Asm. Ortega also served as the State Political Director for AFSCME 3299, the University of California’s largest union.
Assemblymember Liz Ortega is a member of the Assembly Committees on Higher Education, Insurance, Labor and Employment, Public Safety and Rules. She represents the 20th Assembly District, encompassing all or a portion of the cities of Hayward, San Leandro, Union City, Dublin, Pleasanton and the unincorporated areas of Ashland, Cherryland, Fairview, San Lorenzo, and Castro Valley.
###