SACRAMENTO, CA —
Assemblymember Rick Chavez Zbur (D-Hollywood) announced that five of the bills he authored during his first year in the Assembly have successfully advanced out of the Legislature and now head to the Governor's desk. This assortment of legislation covers a wide range of issues, including preventing homelessness, tackling climate change, ensuring access to preventive healthcare, protecting workers, and expanding and upholding civil rights and social justice.
"Each of these bills helps move California closer to a cleaner, kinder, and more compassionate world," said Assemblymember Rick Chavez Zbur. "We must do everything we can on the local, state, and national level to provide a stable future for the generations to come and to create a future with clean air and water, housing for everyone regardless of income, easier access to healthcare, fair pay for workers, and understanding and acceptance for all people."
The five bills are:
AB 3 –
The California Offshore Wind & Jobs Act
Offshore wind energy will play a crucial role in meeting California's ambitious climate goal of achieving 100% renewable energy by 2045, and has the potential to create a significant number of high-paying jobs in the state. AB 3 requires the California Energy Commission – in consultation with relevant state agencies – to study and recommend strategies for maximizing job opportunities for the state and creating pathways for developing port infrastructure to achieve our climate change goals through offshore wind energy.
AB 5 –
The Safe & Supportive Schools Act
Every child deserves to attend a safe and supportive school where they have the greatest possible opportunity to learn and succeed. Despite much progress, LGBTQ+ students still experience harassment, violence, and lack of affirmation in school settings far too often. These experiences can harm LGBTQ+ students' school performance and success, self-esteem, and mental health and can reduce their desire to pursue post-secondary education. AB 5 will provide public school teachers and staff, who are on the front lines of supporting California students, with the training and support they want and need to better serve LGBTQ+ and all students.
AB 1484 –
Bargaining Rights for Temporary Employees
Temporary employees are a vital part of the public workforce and are often employed for long periods of time, yet they are often not allowed to bargain alongside their permanent coworkers for good wages, benefits, and working conditions. AB 1484 provides temporary employees of cities and counties the option to join existing bargaining units, providing them with basic workers' rights without significantly increasing costs or limiting the employer's ability to hire temporary workers as needed.
AB 1620 –
Apartment Swaps for Tenants with Physical Disabilities
People with physical disabilities who are living in rent-controlled apartments are at risk of becoming homeless if they become unable to access their home and cannot find an accessible unit at a similar rental rate. AB 1620 will address this problem by authorizing local jurisdictions to require that tenants with permanent physical disabilities related to mobility be allowed to relocate to an available accessible unit at the same rental rate and terms.
AB 1645 –
Enhanced Consumer Protections for Preventive Care
Every Californian deserves access to preventive health care that is comprehensive, inclusive, and affordable. Current California law relating to preventive health care and screenings for sexually transmitted infections (STIs) contains loopholes that need closing. AB 1645 ensures that patients can access not only preventive care but also all of the services and office visits that are necessary for delivering that care without cost-sharing, including medication management and lab testing for PrEP, a life-saving HIV prevention medication.
California Governor Gavin Newsom generally has until October 14, 2023, to sign bills into law.
Assemblymember Rick Chavez Zbur serves as the Democratic Caucus Chair for the California State Assembly and represents the 51st Assembly District, including Hollywood, West Hollywood, Beverly Hills, Westwood, Santa Monica, and portions of Los Angeles.
CONTACT:
Vienna Montague, (916) 319-2051, Vienna.Montague@asm.ca.gov