(VENTURA) - Senator Monique Limón presented a $1 million state investment to develop the Teen Center at Saticoy Park, alongside Assemblymember Bennett and representatives from the Boys & Girls Club of Greater Ventura County. This funding will go towards the improvements needed to design and construct an addition to the Saticoy Boys and Girls Club facility.
"The Boys & Girls Club of Ventura County has served our community since 1938, making one of the greatest impacts on Ventura youth," said Senator Limón. "This funding will ensure they can continue to support the hundreds of youth and families that rely on their services. I am grateful that I was able to secure this funding, with support from Assemblymember Bennett, in this year's state budget."
"Thank you, Senator Limón, for your leadership and partnership," said Assemblymember Bennett. "I look forward to collaborating again to deliver critical funds to our region."
The Boys & Girls Club of Greater Ventura County has served the community for over 80 years. The space at Saticoy park is their third location, the original having been built in 1996. The current building at Saticoy Park was built in 2013, with future plans to expand their services.
"I am committed to always look for opportunities to support the dreams and aspirations of our youth. That is why I am so excited about this new teen center," said Supervisor LaVere. "Through a strong partnership with Senator Limón, we are helping create a place where potential meets opportunity, where creativity flourishes, and where every young person can thrive."
"Thousands of lives have been changed since 1996 when the Boys & Girls Club of Greater Ventura began its partnership with the County of Ventura to run after school and summer programs in the park. Since then, the program transitioned to a modular trailer, then a brick-and-mortar building and now with the help of this new funding, our teens will benefit from an additional stand-alone teen center," said Patti Birmingham, CEO of Boys & Girls Club of Greater Ventura. "This isn't just a place to hang out, it's a safe place for youth to interact with caring mentors who open doors to positive self-esteem & life choices, character development, academic success and a place to find an accessible path to a Great Future! Our teens, staff, parents and community members are deeply grateful for this investment in the Saticoy Community and the results will be the return on investment for all of us!"