South San Francisco
– Today, Assemblymember Diane Papan presented a check for $200,000 to the Cityof South San Francisco for the “Every Kid Deserves a Bike” Program, providing new bicycles to local school children from underserved neighborhoods. The grant is a state budget allocation championed and secured by Assemblymember Papan.
“Bikes represent opportunities to develop independence, new social connections, engage in recreational opportunities and exercise,” said Papan. “The ‘Every Kid Deserves a Bike” program is a worthy and enormously beneficial investment in our kids.”
The “Every Kid Deserves a Bike” program was launched by the City of South San Francisco in broad partnership with the San Mateo County Office of Education - Safe Routes to School, civic organizations, and volunteers, to connect children from lowincome families with outdoor experiences and growth through free bicycles and support.
“Many children in South San Francisco may never have the option to enjoy biking in our community and all of the connections and opportunities that brings without this program,” said South San Francisco Mayor Flor Nicolas. “Thanks to Assemblymember Diane Papan many hundreds of children will now have this chance.”
“This has been an extremely collaborative effort. There is a difference between working on communities and working with communities,” said South San Francisco Councilmember Eddie Flores. “Our approach has never been top-down and has always been with respect. First, we understand needs, barriers and living conditions of our communities, then we see what to deliver, and how.”
In 2022, the “Every Kid Deserves a Bike” program successfully provided 150 bicycles, helmets, and locks to fourth graders at Spruce Elementary School and fifth graders at Martin Elementary School. The following year, the program provided an additional 350 bicycles, helmets, locks, bike pumps, and kickstands for fourth, fifth, and sixth grade students of Spruce Elementary, Martin Elementary, Los Cerritos Elementary, Sunshine Gardens Elementary and our first middle school, Parkway Heights Middle.
“The social-emotional and physical health benefits of bicycling cannot be overstated,” said San Mateo County Superintendent of School Nancy Magee. “Providing these bikes to children in need is an investment that will pay great dividends for the rest of their lives.” According to South San Francisco Superintendent Dr. Shawnterra Moore, “Thanks to the support of Assemblymember Papan, we can continue to advance equity in our schools and ensure that all children regardless of income can benefit from bike ownership.”
South San Francisco Unified School District Board President Dr. Chialin Hsieh adds, “We are grateful for the many partnerships we have cultivated, and it’s wonderful to see our partners doing the same, especially for children who may need it the most.”
In addition to receiving a brand-new bike, students receive a bicycle adjustment through the BikeMobile, a local nonprofit and a helmet fitted to each student. Students are also able to register their bikes through the South San Francisco Police Department. Lastly, students receive a bike lock and air pump from the City by participating in the County’s “Bike Rodeo", which administers bicycle safety classes and training.
###