Committees Will Focus on Offshore Wind and Students with Disabilities
SACRAMENTO – Assemblymember Dawn Addis (D-Morro Bay) announced today that Speaker Anthony Rendon (D-Lakewood) has appointed her to be Chairperson of two Assembly select committees – the Select Committee on Offshore Wind Energy in California and the Select Committee on Serving Students with Disabilities.
"These committee assignments by the Speaker show the Assembly's commitment to work on issues that are vitally important to the Central Coast and all of California," Addis said. "Both committees will focus on policies that need legislative attention and I'm ready to bring a Central Coast perspective and my experience to the work ahead."
Addis' background, experience and district will inform the focus of the committees.
Addis served on the Morro Bay City Council from 2018 to 2022. In December, the Bureau of Ocean Energy Management (BOEM) completed lease sales for five offshore wind farm areas on the Outer Continental Shelf (OCS) off central and northern California — three off Morro Bay in San Luis Obispo County and two off the coast of Humboldt County.
Addis is also a special education teacher who began teaching in public schools over 20 years ago, and holds a Master of Arts (MA) degree in special education from San Francisco State University. She has teaching credentials in elementary education, secondary education and special education and is fluent in Spanish.
Assembly select committees are authorized for a two-year legislative session and meet publically to discuss specific issues of importance to Californians. Thus far, only Addis has been named to either select committee. Speaker Rendon will approve the full membership of the committees at a later date.
Dawn Addis was elected to the California State Assembly in 2022 to represent the 30th Assembly District. Dawn is a special education teacher who began teaching in public schools over 20 years ago, and holds a Master of Arts (MA) degree in special education from San Francisco State University. She has teaching credentials in elementary education, secondary education and special education and is fluent in Spanish. Dawn's long record of community involvement includes co-founding the Women's March in San Luis Obispo and being a Planned Parenthood Central Coast Action Fund board member. In 2018, she won her first elected office, Morro Bay City Council, and served from 2018 to 2022. Dawn is the first Democrat to represent the majority of San Luis Obispo County in the State Assembly since 1947. She is also the first Democrat from San Luis Obispo County to serve in the State Assembly since 1922 and the first Democratic woman ever to hold this seat. Dawn and her husband Marcus have raised two children on the Central Coast and they have one rescue cat named Oppenheimer.
CONTACT:
Jim Evans, 916-319-2030