SACRAMENTO – Two ocean/coastal protection bills by Assemblymember Dawn Addis (D-Morro Bay) won approval in the State Assembly today. The two bills are:
Assembly Bill 80
, which requires California to build a strong science-based monitoring program to better understand the impact of offshore wind energy on ocean life and habitat.
Assembly Bill 1407
, which accelerates California's marine life restoration efforts by establishing recovery goals for critical ocean ecosystems and a state structure to develop and support restoration projects.
"California has a long history of coastal protections and addressing the climate crisis and these bills continue that tradition," Addis said. "Not only should we ensure that we restore and preserve our ocean habitats for future generations, we must be mindful of these habitats and all ocean life as we take the necessary steps to build off shore wind energy off the coast of California."
Both bills are supported by diverse coalitions and have bipartisan support. AB 80 is co-sponsored by the Monterey Bay Aquarium, the Natural Resources Defense Council and Lieutenant Governor Eleni Kounalakis. AB 1407 is co-sponsored by the Monterey Bay Aquarium and the Nature Conservancy.
"Our ocean faces so many challenges, including habitat destruction, biodiversity loss, and threats posed by climate change," said Amy Wolfrum, Monterey Bay Aquarium California Ocean Policy Senior Manager. "We applaud the Assembly's unanimous passage of Assemblymember Addis' vital legislation, which will support science, help protect marine wildlife and restore foundational ocean habitats."
"The Nature Conservancy is grateful for the leadership of Assemblymember Addis on AB 1407 which takes critical steps to support the restoration of kelp forests, eelgrass meadows, and native oyster beds," said Liz Forsburg Pardi, Ph.D. Interim Director of External Affairs and Policy, The Nature Conservancy. "Given dramatic declines in these key marine habitats, the value of California's ocean economy, and the continued threat of climate change, we must lend nature a helping hand to protect California's unique biodiversity and sustain our coastal communities."
The bills now move to the State Senate, where they will be heard in policy committees there.
CONTACT:
Jim Evans, 916-319-2030