SACRAMENTO
— Assemblymember Tasha Boerner issued the following statement today after passage of a package of budget bills building on the framework passed on June 27th.
Coming off the biggest surplus in the California Budget, it has been projected that this year, lower revenues are expected and yet, we have the second highest revenues in State history. Negotiations with our partners produced a balanced budget that preserves our core, ongoing programs and while several key spending priorities remain to be worked out, the budget plan sent to the Governor today:
Protects education funding at $108.3 billion with $3.4 billion increase for Prop 98 Local Control Funding Formula (LCFF).
Adds $100 million to support the Multi-family Housing Program and $50 million for the Cal Home Program to help address the housing crisis in California.
Restores funding to protect the coast from sea level rise by $378.2 million.
Adds $25 million for urban greening
to reduce impact of greenhouse gas emissions.
Protects funding by $75 million for the extreme heat and community resilience program.
Restores $360 million in individual coverage mandate penalty funds to reduce lower- and middle-income Californians health plan costs in Covered California.
I'm also very pleased to see all of the funding priorities especially focused on increased sustainability, opportunity, and safety in my district:
$150,000
to the City of Coronado Library.
$250,000
for the Lifeguard Northern Garage Feasibility Study in San Diego (La Jolla).
$250,000 to the Port of San Diego for the electrification of cargo handling equipment for the B Street Cruise Terminal.
$350,000
to the City of Carlsbad State Street Parking Lot EV Charging stations.
$500,000 for the City of San Diego library materials.
$500,000
for the Sand Replenishment Project in Del Mar.
$2 million
for the Rancho Coastal Humane Society Expansion and Reconstruction Project.
As a mother and a legislator, I believe that the State Budget is a reflection of our values. It is vital that we prioritize resources to address the climate crisis and focus on transitioning towards clean energy, continue to work towards solving our housing crisis, and ensure healthcare coverage for Californians everywhere. I look forward with optimism to the Governor’s final approval and signature on these bills.
###
Assemblymember Tasha Boerner represents the 77th District, which encompasses Carlsbad, Encinitas, Solana Beach, Del Mar, and the coastal communities of La Jolla south to Downtown and Coronado. You can learn more about Assemblymember Boerner at
a77.asmdc.org
,
Facebook
,
Instagram
, or
Twitter
.