SACRAMENTO—Assemblymember James C. Ramos (D-San Bernardino), the first and only California Native American elected to the legislature, announced he received an award from the California Native American Heritage Commission for serving as the longest serving chair. Ramos received the award last night at the California Tribal Chairpersons’ Association.
Ramos said, “It is an honor to receive this recognition from an organization I hold in high regard for protecting the state’s Native American sacred sites and resources. I valued the opportunity to bring attention to the diversity and history of California’s tribes and to engage in the work of protecting our cultural patrimony.”
The Commission was established through legislation in 1976. In 1982, it was authorized to identify a Most Likely Descendant (MLDs) when Native American human remains are discovered at places other than a dedicated cemetery so MLDs could make recommendations for the respectful treatment of those discovered human remains.
Raymond Hitchcock, the Commission’s Executive Secretary stated, “It is our distinct pleasure to honor Assemblymember James Ramos as a longstanding Chairman of the Native American Heritage Commission from 2008 until 2018,” said Executive Secretary, Raymond C Hitchcock. “His passion and leadership of the Heritage Commission, fighting and advocating for the protection of our tribal Ancestors and communities is now on full display to the entire State of California. This is a testament to the beautiful soul this man really is!”
In introducing Ramos, Commissioner Wayne Nelson of the Pala Tribe and a member of the InterTribal Bird Singers, observed that Ramos would probably have served longer but for his 2018 election to the Legislature. Nelson added, “In his time as a state Legislator he has been able to challenge institutions to address and correct the lack of accurate and respectful representation of Native Americans. He is a true champion for Native American communities.”
###
Assemblymember James C. Ramos proudly represents the 45
th
Assembly district which includes the Cities of Fontana, Highland, Mentone, Redlands, Rialto and San Bernardino. He is the first and only California Native American serving in the state’s legislature. Ramos chairs the Assembly Committees on Rules.