(Sacramento)
Last week the California State Assembly finished the first major hurdle for the 2023 legislative session. This time is known as "the end of the first house of origin." This signifies that any bills introduced in this legislative session must be passed by the Assembly and moved to the next house, the State Senate.
Assemblymember David Alvarez (San Diego – D) accomplished moving 14 bills out of the Assembly, and they will start being heard soon in the State Senate. Assemblymember Alvarez's legislative package includes bills that address our state's housing crisis, everyday quality of life, education, the environment, and cultural expression.
"I'm
excited to move these bills out of the Assembly and into the Senate,
" said Assemblymember Alvarez. "
Over the last six months, I have worked closely with community organizations and advocacy groups to make sure we have a strong legislative package this session that helps every Californian. While there is still much work to be done on these bills, I am proud these bills were passed with bi-partisan support from my colleagues in the Assembly. I look forward to working with the Senate on these important issues next.
"
Over the next four months, the State Senate will vote on these bills. Once passed by the Senate, the approved bills will move to the Governor's desk for his signature. If you want additional information on Assemblymember Alvarez's legislation,
please visit his website
.
Assembly Bills Passed by the State Assembly:
AB-91 Community Colleges: In-State Tuition for Border Residents
AB-425 Personalized Pharmacogenomic (Genetic) Testing for Medi-Cal Patients
AB-427 Otay Mesa East Border Port of Entry Act
AB-436 Cruising in Not a Crime
AB-678 Biomethane Procurement Targets or Goals: Core Transport Agents
AB-837 Surplus Land Exemption City of Chula Vista
AB-956 California State Auditor: Background Checks
AB-979 Family Councils Communication Modernization and Update
AB-1005 Expedited Care for Terminal Illness Diagnosis - In-Home Supportive Services (IHSS)
AB-1287 Middle Income Density Bonus
AB-1449 100% Affordable Housing Exception California Environmental Quality Act
AB-1472 Statewide Protections for Residents of Recreational Vehicles
AB-1597 Water Quality in California-Mexico Cross-Border Rivers
AB-1603 Nutrition Incentive Matching Grant Program for Qualified Entities: Consumer Cooperatives
###
The 80th Assembly District includes the communities of Barrio Logan, Logan Heights, Sherman Heights, Bonita, Lincoln Acres, Otay Mesa and San Ysidro, along with the cities of Chula Vista, National City and Imperial Beach.