SACRAMENTO, CA —
Assemblymember Rick Chavez Zbur (D-Hollywood) announced today that Governor Gavin Newsom signed into law AB 1620, his bill to increase housing security for tenants with permanent disabilities related to mobility, who are at higher risk of homelessness. This bill is one of several in Assemblymember Zbur's inaugural housing bill package that responds to the state's ongoing crisis around housing and homelessness.
"This bill has a narrow focus but will make a real difference in the lives of so many people," said Assemblymember Zbur. "Older people and people living with disabilities face a higher risk of homelessness, and this bill will help those living in rent-controlled apartments to remain in their homes. Keeping people in their homes, which empowers them to age with dignity, is both a practical and compassionate solution."
AB 1620 authorizes local jurisdictions to require that tenants in rent-controlled units and who have permanent physical disabilities related to mobility be allowed to relocate to an available, accessible unit at the same rental rate and terms. The bill only applies to properties with five or more rental units.
Assemblymember Zbur would like to give special thanks to the bill's sponsors, the City of West Hollywood and the City of Santa Monica.
"We, at the City of West Hollywood, are grateful to Governor Gavin Newsom for signing our City-sponsored bill, AB 1620 into law and to Assemblymember Rick Chavez Zbur for introducing the bill," said
West Hollywood Mayor Sepi Shyne.
"AB 1620 will allow permanently disabled tenants to relocate from an upper floor unit of a building where no elevator is available to a ground floor unit if a similar or comparable size unit is available. This unprecedented revision of the Costa Hawkins Rental Act is a huge achievement that will bring relief to some of our most vulnerable residents. West Hollywood's incorporation was led by a coalition of tenants, LGBTQ+ people, disabled individuals, and seniors, and AB 1620 aligns perfectly with the City's core values and the spirit that drove the incorporation."
"We're thrilled to see this legislation enacted to keep those at greater risk of housing discrimination in their homes," said
Santa Monica Mayor Gleam Davis.
"AB 1620 is another tool to help ensure those with disabilities can continue to live with dignity and remain a vital part of our city's diverse community."
AB 1620 will take effect on January 1, 2024. The legislature reconvenes on January 3, 2024.
Assemblymember Rick Chavez Zbur serves as the Democratic Caucus Chair for the California State Assembly and represents the 51st Assembly District, including Hollywood, West Hollywood, Beverly Hills, Westwood, Santa Monica, and portions of Los Angeles.
CONTACT:
Vienna Montague, (916) 319-2051, Vienna.Montague@asm.ca.gov