SACRAMENTO – Today, Assemblymember Liz Ortega (D-San Leandro) presented Assembly Concurrent Resolution (ACR) 24 proclaiming the week of March 5, 2023, through March 11, 2023, as Women in Construction Week. The Member also honored two tradeswomen from UA Local 288 who visited the Capitol to show support for the measure.
This resolution, presented annually since 2018, is meant to bring awareness to the gender gap in this industry. In California, the construction industry provides well-paying union jobs. However, women are severely underrepresented in this field for several reasons, including being unable to join or finish apprenticeship programs due to family care responsibilities, financial restrictions, or social stigma. Only 3 to 4% of building trades’ career positions nationwide are held by women.
“California must do more to make these important jobs available to women and bring parity to the construction industry,” said Assemblymember Liz Ortega. “Although we have made great improvements with the numbers of women in apprenticeships and construction jobs in the last few years, there is still a long way to go.”
“Women play an important role in California’s construction workforce, one the State Building Trades has always been proud of,” explains the President of the State Building and Construction Trades Council of California, Andrew Meredith. “While it is important to recognize this week every year, we are honored to be a part of recognizing their contributions to this industry during the 2023 ‘Women in Construction’ week. We endeavor to continue breaking down barriers for women entering the construction workforce in California, as well as celebrating those already amongst our ranks.”
To arrange for an interview with Assemblymember Ortega, please contact her Chief of Staff, M.V. Watson, at (210) 667-5046.
Assemblymember Liz Ortega is a member of the Assembly Committees on Higher Education, Insurance, Labor and Employment, Public Safety, and Rules. She represents the 20th Assembly District, encompassing all or a portion of the cities of Hayward, San Leandro, Union City, Dublin, Pleasanton, and the unincorporated areas of Ashland, Cherryland, Fairview, San Lorenzo, and Castro Valley.