Today, Assemblymember Alex Lee (D-San José) introduced AB 413 to improve public safety by increasing the visibility of pedestrians and bicyclists for drivers at crosswalks and intersections.
AB 413 is sponsored by the transportation advocacy organization
Streets For All
, and would prohibit vehicles from being stopped, left or parked within 20 feet of a marked crosswalk or intersection, a pedestrian safety measure known as “daylighting."
Daylighting makes it easier for people using all modes of transportation to see one another. Without vehicles blocking sight lines near intersections, drivers can more clearly see if a pedestrian is waiting to cross the street and, likewise, pedestrians can better spot approaching vehicles without having to step into the street for a clear view of oncoming traffic.
“Daylighting is a proven way we can make our streets safer for everyone, and 43 other states have already implemented some version of daylighting,” said Assemblymember Lee. “By making it easier for motorists, pedestrians, and bicyclists to see each other at intersections, we can take a simple and important step to help us all safely share the road.”
California’s pedestrian fatality rate is more than 25% higher than the national average, and no state has more pedestrian deaths on its roadways, according to the
California Office of Traffic Safety
. In 2021, pedestrian deaths in the U.S. reached a four-decade high, with California topping the list with 958, according to
a report by the Governors Highway Safety Association
. According to the
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHSTA)
, 26% of cyclist fatalities occur at intersections.
Making this adjustment to parking near intersections and crosswalks is a widely accepted pedestrian safety measure, which has been implemented in parts of cities in California, such as
Los Angeles
,
San Francisco
, and
Alameda
, and across the United States, in cities like
Portland, Oregon
, and
Hoboken, New Jersey
. The
National Association of City Transportation Officials
recommends removing parked or stopped vehicles from within 20-25 feet from an intersection.
“Daylighting is an effective and affordable safety measure that will combat the rising tide of pedestrian deaths in California,” said Marc Vukcevich, co-director of state policy for Streets For All, a Los Angeles-based organization advocating for safe, sustainable and equitable transportation. “We need to make real strides to ensure our streets are designed to support and protect our most vulnerable road users, and we’re proud to be working with Assemblymember Alex Lee to do just that.”