SACRAMENTO, Calif. - (December 20, 2023) ---
The Council of State Governments
(CSG) selected California State
Assemblymember Mike A. Gipson (D-Carson)
as its national vice chair during the annual national conference in Raleigh, North Carolina. His term as 2024 CSG National Vice Chair will begin on January 1.
CSG is a national, nonpartisan association of elected and appointed state officials from all three branches of state government. Assemblymember Gipson is entering a rotation of national officers that will have him chairing the organization in 2026.
“Assemblymember Gipson has distinguished himself as a problem solver with a passion for public service,” said David Adkins, CSG executive director/CEO. “We are honored to have him among our national officers.”
Gipson was elected to the California State Assembly in 2014, representing its 65th Assembly District. He served as Assembly Democratic Caucus Chair from 2015 to 2023, leading the caucus’s legislative decision-making process, addressing statewide issues, and hosting weekly meetings concerning the caucus’s priorities. He previously served as a council member for the city of Carson.
"Being elected as the 2024 National Vice Chair of The Council of State Governments is both a tremendous honor and responsibility,” said
Assemblymember Mike A. Gipson (D-Carson)
. “I am committed to fostering collaboration among state officials and leveraging our diverse perspectives to address the pressing issues facing our nation. Together, we will build bridges, forge solutions, and ensure a brighter future for all. I am grateful for the opportunity and excited to embark on this journey of service and leadership."
CSG West
nominated Gipson for the national officer position at its annual regional meeting in November. He currently serves as chair of CSG West, a regional office of The Council of State Governments that provides resources and professional growth opportunities to state elected officials in Western states through member-driven, regionally focused programs and services. His nomination was confirmed at the 2023 CSG National Conference on Dec. 6 by the CSG Executive Committee and Leadership Council, comprised of representatives of all state governments in the United States.
Gipson joins other state leaders serving as national officers, including Nevada Gov. Joe Lombardo as 2024 CSG National President, Connecticut Assistant Deputy Speaker Pro Tempore Kevin Ryan as 2024 CSG National Chair, and Illinois Sen. Elgie Sims as 2024 CSG National Chair-Elect.
About The Council of State Governments
The Council of State Governments
is our nation’s only organization serving all three branches of state government. Founded in 1933, CSG is a region-based forum that fosters the exchange of insights and ideas to help state officials shape public policy. This offers unparalleled regional, national and international opportunities to network, develop leaders, collaborate and create problem-solving partnerships. For more information about The Council of State Governments, visit
csg.org
.