(SACRAMENTO, CA) – Recognizing the significant economic impact that Black-owned businesses contribute to California's economy, Assemblymember Tina McKinnor (D - Inglewood) today was joined by the California Legislative Black Caucus and the California Black Chamber of Commerce in recognizing Los Angeles based Restaurant Seven Nineteen as the Black Small Business of the Year.
Restaurant Seven Nineteen’s owner Tyrei Lacy began his work in the culinary and entertainment industries in 2010 and quickly became known as a respected business leader across southern California. Lacy’s Game Sports Bar Restaurant & Lounge established itself as one of the most popular sports bars in Los Angeles and soon became known simply as G|S, Restaurant Seven Nineteen, the reimagined version of that business, featuring a completely remodeled interior and an updated menu.
The California Legislative Black Caucus, in partnership with the California Black Chamber of Commerce recently began to include the small business recognition ceremony as part of their Black History Month activities. Specifically, the ceremony honors Black-owned businesses that have made a positive impact to California's economy while creating jobs and opportunities, closing the racial wealth gap and empowering local communities.
“Black-owned small businesses are an essential part of California’s economy,” said Assemblymember Tina McKinnor. “Restaurant Seven Nineteen has been a popular space for families and friends across southern California to gather, celebrate and build community for years. Their dedicated staff make every guest feel welcome and have been an important part of Los Angeles’ vibrant and diverse restaurant scene. I’m honored to have Restaurant Seven Nineteen in my district, to recognize them as the 2023 Black Small Business of the Year and look forward to seeing Tyrei Lacy and his team build upon their incredible success.”
The California Legislative Black Caucus and the California Black Chamber of Commerce’s Black Small Business of the Year ceremony was held in Sacramento, recognizing Black-owned small businesses across the state. Following the recognition, Restaurant Seven Nineteen was honored by the California State Assembly and California State Senate for their contribution to California’s culture and economy.
Attached photo caption: Assemblymember Tina McKinnor (D – Inglewood) recognizes Tyrei Lacy, owner of Restaurant Seven Nineteen as the 2023 Black Small Business of the Year.