SACRAMENTO
– Today, Assemblywoman Esmeralda Soria (D-Merced) was appointed Chair of the
Assembly Agriculture Committee
by Assembly Speaker Robert Rivas (D-Hollister).
Assemblywoman Soria is honored to Chair the Assembly Agriculture Committee and oversee the state’s $50 billion agriculture industry. Assemblywoman Soria represents Assembly District 27, a largely agricultural district, in the heart of the Central Valley. The Central Valley supplies 8% of U.S. agricultural output, and produces 25% of the nation's food, including 40% of the nation's fruits, nuts, and other table foods.
“I’m grateful to Speaker Rivas for entrusting me with the important work of this committee,” said Assemblywoman Soria. “As the daughter of first-generation immigrants and farmworkers, I worked alongside my parents in the Central Valley agricultural fields, and understand the importance of supporting both our agricultural industry and workers.”
As Chair of the 11-member Assembly Agriculture Committee, Assemblywoman Soria will lead the legislative decision-making process on a wide variety of issues including agricultural commissions, agricultural commodities, Department of Food and Agriculture, expositions and fairs, farmers markets, food access, food labeling, livestock and poultry, dairy products, pest management, veterinarians, and more.
“I am proud to appoint Assemblywoman Esmeralda Soria as Chair of the Assembly Agriculture Committee,” said Speaker Rivas. “The daughter of farmworkers, Assemblywoman Soria understands that agriculture touches the lives of every Californian in unique and different ways. I look forward to working with her to keep California agriculture the envy of the world.”
“I hold a deep connection with California agriculture,” said Assemblywoman Soria. “I pledge to continually engage with and bring the voices of farmers and farmworkers to the State Capitol.”
###
Assemblywoman Esmeralda Soria represents the 27th Assembly District which includes communities in Fresno, Madera, and Merced counties.