Assemblymember Mike A. Gipson Host 12th Annual Women’s Leadership Breakfast this Past Weekend
Carson, Calif. --- (June 6, 2023) – Assemblymember Mike A. Gipson (D-Carson) and his wife, Mrs. Le Cresha Gipson, proudly hosted the 12th annual Women's Leadership Breakfast on Saturday, June 3, in Carson, CA. The event was a remarkable success, bringing together an inspiring group of women who have demonstrated exceptional leadership in their respective fields and communities.
“It was an honor to celebrate these outstanding leaders who have made a difference in their communities and have paved the way for future generations,” said
Assemblymember Gipson
. “Their unwavering commitment to excellence is truly inspirational. I could not have hosted such a successful event without our esteemed panelists, Betty C. Lieu, Governing School Board Member, and Margot Taylor, VP of Strategy and Advocacy, Planned Parenthood Los Angeles. In addition to recognizing and celebrating the extraordinary achievements of women in the 65th AD, we also raised awareness and advocated for women’s reproductive rights, which are essential for women’s health and dignity. I was happy to see and talk with leaders from all different sectors and backgrounds who share a common vision of women’s empowerment.”
“Among the many honorees was Sweet Alice Harris, who is a long-time community organizer based in Watts and the founder of Parents of Watts (POW). POW is a local youth outreach group that provides emergency food, shelter, tutoring, health seminars, parenting classes, college preparation, and many more services. It is an invaluable resource that has benefited countless Watts community members. I was inspired by these leaders, and I will continue to elevate the voices of our community leaders at every opportunity.”
The theme of this year’s leadership breakfast was “She is the 65th AD,” recognizing some of the outstanding leaders that the 65th Assembly District has to offer. The Women's Leadership Breakfast served as a platform to recognize and celebrate the extraordinary achievements of women who have made significant contributions to their communities and professions.