SAN BERNARDINO—Assemblymember James C. Ramos (D-San Bernardino) announced today that Fontana resident Angelica Macias was selected as the California Latino Legislative Caucus Foundation 2023 Scholarship recipient for the 45th Assembly District and will receive $5,000.
Macias, a first generation college student attends California Baptist University and is pursuing a career as a nurse practitioner in the field of neonatology. She has already graduated from community college. “I have dreamt of working in the medical field since I was nine years old, and that dream lives on to this day,” Macias said. While attending school, she works as a Perioperative Technician at Loma Linda University to offset her school, family, and living expenses.
The nursing student said she found her educational inspiration from her parents who emigrated from Mexico. “My father did not have the privilege to attend high school in Mexico and was expected to provide for his siblings at a young age. When he arrived in California at about eighteen years old, he came with a strong will to learn and absorb any knowledge. He had a hunger to learn and solve any situations in his workplace by studying books in his free time.”
Macias added, “His hard work ethic has profoundly influenced me to also accomplish my career goals . . . it is possible with hard work and grit.”
As the first in her family to attend college, Macias also served as a model and support system for her four younger siblings by helping them meet their education goals and set a career path for themselves.
Ramos said, “Angelica is a testimony to the values her parents have instilled in her. She also brings compassion and care back to the community in her current job as well as her desire to work as a nurse, nurturing and caring for children. I wish Angelica all the best as she continues to overcome challenges and celebrate the success of Latinos in higher education.”
Each year the California Latino Legislative Caucus Foundation opens applications for their statewide scholarship. Over 60 students from the 45th Assembly District applied for the scholarship this year. Applicants included high school seniors and university graduate level students with interests in a variety of studies such as medicine, political science, and technology.
California Latino Legislative Caucus scholarship recipients are selected from a highly competitive pool of more than 900 applicants and are evaluated using the following criteria: academic performance, personal statements, extracurricular activities, leadership positions held, special awards and honors received, and work history. Each winner receives a $5,000 scholarship, which aids eligible students admitted to or currently enrolled at an accredited college or university.
###
Assemblymember James C. Ramos proudly represents the 45th Assembly district which includes the Cities of Fontana, Highland, Mentone, Redlands, Rialto and San Bernardino. He is the first and only California Native American serving in the state’s legislature. Ramos chairs the Assembly Committees on Rules.