Flooding anticipated for the Salinas River in Monterey County; further updates below
SACRAMENTO — Assemblymember Dawn Addis (D-Morro Bay) today urged residents of Assembly District 30 (the counties of San Luis Obispo, Santa Cruz and Monterey) to stay safe amid the next wave of storms by paying close attention to the latest information from local governments and heeding the direction of first responders and other emergency personnel.
"The Central Coast is experiencing historic and devastating weather and there's more on the way," Addis said. "We can't stop the rain and wind, but we can prevent further tragic deaths by being mindful of our surroundings and staying updated on the latest emergency information. Our coastal communities have come together to help neighbors and vulnerable residents. At the state level, we'll do everything possible to honor that selflessness by continuing to work with state and federal officials to bring all the resources we can to help the people of Assembly District 30."
On Tuesday, Addis joined Governor Gavin Newsom, Secretary of Natural Resources Wade Crowfoot and Capitola and Santa Cruz County officials to survey the damage in Capitola. On January 8,
the Governor submitted a request to the White House for a Presidential Emergency Declaration to support ongoing storm response and recovery efforts
. Just prior to conferring with the Governor and local officials, Addis met with workers at the Pacific, Gas & Electric command center in Capitola for an update on all that the utility is doing to restore service in Santa Cruz County.
The latest news by county is as follows:
Monterey County issued a warning Wednesday that the Salinas River will be at flood stage today (Thursday). The County reports that roads affected include State Route 68, River Road, Reservation Road, Blanco Road, multiple secondary roads, and potentially Highway 1. Residents both on the peninsula and in the Salinas area should expect to be cut off for two to three days. Residents should not attempt to traverse closed roads for their safety and the safety of others.
Find the latest information here
.
San Luis Obispo County is providing a boat transfer at 11am today for Paso Robles residents in the Running Deer Ranch, Cal Shasta, Rancho Del Lago, and South Shore areas that are isolated by the Chimney Rock Road closure. The meeting place for the boat transfer is Running Deer Boat Ramp & Cal Shasta Boat Ramp. Residents will be taken to Oak Shores. and then transferred to the Paso Robles Event Center.
Find the latest information here
.
While Santa Cruz County evacuation orders were lifted in Capitola, Rio Del Mar, and Soquel, there are still evacuation warnings in effect due to continued weather systems that are expected in the coming days and the potential flooding that could come with them.
Find the latest information here
.
According the National Weather Service, the Central Coast could see winds in the 20mph range and rainfall of up to two inches this weekend. Residents are urged to stay updated on the weather forecast and local emergency updates by paying close attention to news sources and local government websites.
Dawn Addis was elected to the California State Assembly in 2022 to represent the 30th Assembly District. Dawn is a special education teacher who began teaching in public schools over 20 years ago, and holds a Master of Arts (MA) degree in special education from San Francisco State University. She has teaching credentials in elementary education, secondary education and special education and is fluent in Spanish. Dawn's long record of community involvement includes co-founding the Women's March in San Luis Obispo and being a Planned Parenthood Central Coast Action Fund board member. In 2018, she won her first elected office, Morro Bay City Council, and served from 2018 to 2022. Dawn is the first Democrat to represent the majority of San Luis Obispo County in the State Assembly since 1947. She is also the first Democrat from San Luis Obispo County to serve in the State Assembly since 1922 and the first Democratic woman ever to hold this seat. Dawn and her husband Marcus have raised two children on the Central Coast and they have one rescue cat named Oppenheimer.
CONTACT:
Jim Evans, 916-319-2030