SACRAMENTO, Calif. - (August 24, 2023) --- Today,
Assemblymember Mike A. Gipson (D-Carson)
presented a $3 million symbolic check to the 40-Acre Conservation League, California's first and only Black-led conservation group. This investment, provided by the Wildlife Conservation Board and the Sierra Nevada Conservancy, will help the league acquire its first land acquisition, a 650-acre plot 70 miles North of Sacramento.
"As a little boy growing up in Watts, I often took vacations to my family's farm in rural Texas. It was there that I first fell in love with and grew to respect the great outdoors," said Assemblymember Mike A. Gipson (D-Carson). "So when the 40-Acre Conservation League came to me, explained their vision, and asked for my help to acquire their first piece of land, I couldn't say no. The 40-Acre Conservation League's goal is to increase recreational and economic opportunities for all Californians with a focus on ensuring that Black families understand these opportunities, families like mine who are from deeply urban areas. My hope is that these 650 acres of land will help other little Black boys and girls fall in love with and grow a deep appreciation of the great outdoors."
"With the support and partnership of Assemblymembers Mike Gipson and Lori Wilson, we're excited and humbled to make history as the first Black-led land conservancy in California," said Jade Stevens, President of the 40 Acre Conservation League. "This first acquisition embodies the belief that all of us have a voice and role in the implementation of the State's 30 x 30 initiative. Today represents a strong step forward in rectifying historical wrongs, restoring dignity, and providing the foundation for economic empowerment and social equity. We look forward to what lies ahead."
"The Sierra Nevada Conservancy has a mission to support the environmental, economic, and social health of the Sierra-Cascade region for ALL Californians," said Julie Alvis, Deputy Executive Officer of the Sierra Nevada Conservancy. "We're excited to be able to support the 40 Acres Conservation League's historic acquisition and appreciate them as stewards of this land and creators of a welcoming gateway for people of color to enjoy California's Sierra Nevada."
The 40 Acre Conservation League is a nonprofit land conservancy formed with the goal of fostering greater human connections to nature to increase community support for its protection. It plans to foster these connections, particularly among people of color, and will acquire land for the purposes of economic justice, environmental justice, and recreational justice. Its first acquisition, made possible through Assemblymember Gipson's advocacy and provided by the Wildlife Conservation Board and the Sierra Nevada Conservancy, includes 650 acres of land with a 30-acre lake and critical riparian forest habitat located one hour outside of downtown Sacramento in Placer County, 30 minutes outside of Lake Tahoe.
Assemblymember Mike A. Gipson proudly represents the 65th Assembly District which includes the cities and communities of Watts, Willowbrook, Compton, Carson, North Long Beach, Harbor Gateway North & South, Harbor City, Wilmington, and San Pedro.
CONTACT:
John Schaeffer,
john.schaeffer@asm.ca.gov,
916-319-2065