Sacramento, CA
– Today, Assemblymember Bauer-Kahan (D-Orinda) introduced AB 301 which bans the use of body armor in California. The bill will put in place common-sense limitations on the sale of body armor so it is only available to individuals who fall under qualified professions such as peace officers, firefighters, private investigators, and others.  AB 301 is sponsored by Everytown for Gun Safety.
"We cannot allow dangerous individuals to have military armaments unchecked,"
said Assemblymember Bauer-Kahan
. "This bill is a necessary step to protect the safety of our communities and ensure that law enforcement has the tools they need to keep us safe. California leads the nation in our gun violence prevention laws, but we have more work to do."
Recent events have shown that body armor is increasingly being used by extremist groups and individuals with the intent to cause harm to civilians. This bill aims to prevent such individuals from obtaining and using body armor, which provides them with a dangerous tactical advantage.
The bill will also make it illegal to sell or distribute body armor, which is currently unregulated. By closing this loophole, the bill will help to prevent the proliferation of body armor in the hands of those who should not have it.
“In at least 21 mass shootings — including in Buffalo, Aurora and Boulder — gunmen have used body armor to protect themselves as they seek out maximum destruction and death,”
said Shannon Watts,
California resident and founder of Moms Demand Action, the grassroots network of Everytown for Gun Safety. “Easy access to weapons of war and body armor turns horrific gun violence even more deadly and makes it more difficult for law enforcement and security professionals to disarm active shooters. As a former Moms Demand Action volunteer and a strong champion for gun safety in California, Assemblymember Bauer-Kahan understands the importance of taking action to save lives and we're proud to continue supporting her in those efforts.”
“I’m proud to stand with my colleagues and combine efforts that will protect innocent civilians and the professionals who keep our communities safe,”
said Assemblymember Damon Connolly (D-San Rafael).
“Without help from a Republican-controlled Congress, California must act to end the gun violence epidemic.”
"This bill strikes a balance between protecting the rights of law-abiding citizens and keeping our communities safe,"
said Assemblymember Bauer-Kahan
. "It is a common-sense solution to a serious problem."
AB 301 is co-authored by Assemblymember Marc Berman (D-Menlo Park), Assemblymember Damon Connolly (D-San Rafael), Assemblymember Mike Fong (D-Monterey Park).
The bill is pending referral to committee.
###