SACRAMENTO, CA
– On the heels of the released Governor’s Budget, Assemblywoman Lori D. Wilson (D-Suisun City) expresses her support for the continued investments in this year’s budget. Particularly she is pleased that the budget protects and expands investments to address our behavioral health and homeless crisis despite the anticipated budget shortfall. The budget also highlighted the need for further accountability in the Homeless Housing, Assistance and Prevention Program and to ensure investments into our unhoused community are being spent effectively
“We know California needs historic investments into our unhoused crisis and I am happy to see homeless investments not only maintained, but expanded. At the same time, this is a good opportunity to reevaluate, ensure there is collaboration between our counties and cities, and direct resources to where they need to go based off of our point-in-time counts.”
However, Asm. Wilson is concerned about the adjustments made to our housing investments while rising costs, supply, and other issues continue to pose challenges for Californians to access affordable housing and homeownership opportunities, particularly with recent reports highlighting California’s homeownership rate is the third lowest in the nation at 54.8%.
“At a time when costs and interest rates are rising, programs such as Dream For All, CalHome, and the ADU Program provide real opportunities for California families to access affordable housing or realize and expand homeownership.”
Lastly, Assemblywoman Wilson appreciates the Governor’s proposed $40.6 million investment into the Delta Levees in order to reduce the risk of levee failure, flooding and saltwater intrusion.  The Assemblymember looks forward to working with her colleagues in the Legislature and with the Governor to ensure that needed investments are protected in order to continue to make progress against the crises facing Californians while still guaranteeing our budget is balanced.
The 11th Assembly District, is comprised of the cities of Vallejo, Benicia, Fairfield, Suisun City, Vacaville, Dixon, Rio Vista and Oakley. The District includes all of Solano County along with portions of Contra Costa and Sacramento counties.
###