SACRAMENTO
- Assemblymember Marc Berman (D-Menlo Park) secured $500,000 in the 2023-24 state budget for the City of Campbell to renovate City Hall to improve accessibility and meet Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) standards.
“An accessible government is key to building public trust and ensuring all residents’ voices are heard,”
said Assemblymember Berman
. “In the face of a shrinking state budget, I am thrilled to have secured $500,000 in the state budget to renovate Campbell City Hall to ensure that it is fully accessible to all residents. These facility improvements will greatly benefit community members who depend on their local government to obtain critical services.”
“I was pleased to hear from Assemblymember Berman that $500k was approved for this project through the State budget process.  The City Hall ADA facility improvement project aligns with the City’s Strategic Goals and Objectives and will include upgrades to city hall public counters and accessibility improvements to better serve Campbell residents.  I am proud of the collaboration between the City and our State elected leaders,”
said Campbell Mayor Anne Bybee.
This state appropriation will fund renovations to public counters and public meeting spaces, as well as accessibility improvements to the main entrances and public service counters spaces. These areas pose significant accessibility challenges and are in need of upgrades. The main entrance consists of long sloping ramps that would be improved to meet current standards. The service areas include Community Development, Planning and Building, Public Works, Engineering, and Finance and Administration. All of these areas have significant daily use and improvements would greatly benefit residents who use these spaces to obtain city services.  The Council Chambers also have accessibility issues with the existing fixed seating and access to the Council Dias area. This project would remove the fixed seating and provide for better access to the Dias and related spaces.
Contact: bermanpress@asm.ca.gov