(SACRAMENTO, CA) – For the first time in state history, California State Legislative staff will have the choice to form a union and collectively bargain for wages, benefits and working conditions, regardless of political affiliation. California becomes the largest state in the nation that will allow non-supervisor legislative staff to join a union and follows Oregon and Maine, whose staff are able to unionize.
Under AB 1, the Senate Rules Committee, the Assembly Rules Committee or the Joint Legislative Rules Committee (the administrative offices of the Legislature) would establish procedures to implement the collective bargaining process with the employees' chosen union. Wages and benefits would be negotiated within the budgetary restrictions approved by voters through Proposition 140.
McKinnor, a former legislative employee herself was an original signer of the We Said Enough letter in 2017, which sparked the Me Too movement to address workplace sexual harassment, retaliation and intimidation within the California Legislature. AB 1 builds upon that work to give legislative staff greater say to create a safe, diverse, equitable and inclusive workplace.
"Today is a huge victory for the nearly 2,000 legislative and district staff that have dedicated their careers to public service and have long deserved the right to be represented by a union," said Assemblymember Tina McKinnor. "Legislative staff aren't looking for special treatment - they are looking for the same dignity and respect afforded to all represented workers," said Assemblymember McKinnor. "To the staff in our district offices and Capitol offices - including our dedicated committee staff - that honorably serve the people of the State of California everyday - know this - we see you and we respect you. And with AB 1, we are taking action to make sure that current and future legislative staff, regardless of their Member's political affiliation, are afforded a safe, equitable and fair opportunity to build a noble career in public service."
AB 1 will become effective on July 1, 2026.
Assemblymember Tina McKinnor represents the cities and communities of Gardena, Hawthorne, Inglewood, Lawndale, Lenox, Los Angeles, Marina del Rey, Venice, West Athens, Westchester and Westmont in Los Angeles County.
Connect with Assemblymember McKinnor on social media: @AsmTinaMcKinnor