SACRAMENTO, CA –
Assemblywoman Sharon Quirk-Silva (D – Fullerton)
announced that Governor Gavin Newsom has signed AB 1175 into law, extending provisions related to redevelopment area signs under the California Outdoor Advertising Act (OAA). This legislation grants a two-year extension for redevelopment areas to designate specific signs as "on premises," supporting local businesses and communities.
“Realistically, we all know that Cities and Counties, will be slowly recovering from the pandemic for many years to come,” said
Assemblywoman Quirk-Silva
. “Well-established freeway signs play a crucial role for Cities and Counties, attracting both locals and visitors to business centers and destination places. AB 1175 provides more time for our local governments and helps protect their general fund tax revenue dollars, which often help pay for community programs and services our mutual constituents rely on.”
The California Outdoor Advertising Act regulates highway advertising displays, but not "on premise" signs promoting businesses or property sales. Historically, redevelopment areas captured property tax increases for community development. AB 1175 empowers local governments to seek a two-year extension for these areas, ensuring continued operation of advertising displays that meet specific requirements. The extension provisions apply to existing advertising displays constructed before January 1, 2012, provided they meet specific requirements outlined in existing law.
“
We are grateful to Assembly Member Quirk-Silva for the unwavering support and dedication to our community,”
said
Hawaiian Gardens Mayor Luis Roa
.  “This freeway sign in Hawaiian Gardens has become more than just a landmark; it represents a symbol of economic growth, community development, and the strong bond between our city and the Hawaiian Gardens Casino.”
Assemblywoman Sharon Quirk-Silva represents the 67th Assembly District, which includes the Orange County communities of Anaheim, Buena Park, Cypress, Fullerton, and La Palma, as well as the Los Angeles County communities of Artesia
,
Cerritos, and Hawaiian Gardens.