SACRAMENTO, CA –
Assemblymember Rick Chavez Zbur (D-West Hollywood/Santa Monica) announced today that his legislation, the Safe and Supportive Schools Act, successfully passed out of the Assembly. This landmark legislation aims to ensure that LGBTQ+ and every child has the opportunity to attend a safe and supportive school environment, where they can thrive and reach their full potential.
"Every child deserves to attend a supportive and welcoming school where they have the greatest possible opportunity to learn and succeed," emphasized Assemblymember Zbur. "AB 5 will empower our educators to create an environment where LGBTQ+ and all students feel affirmed, respected, and protected. By providing comprehensive training and support that teachers both want and need, we can ensure that all students have the resources to thrive and excel in their educational journey."
The Safe and Supportive Schools Act will enhance the professional development opportunities available to educators, helping them to foster inclusive classroom environments and address the unique challenges faced by LGBTQ+ and all students. Despite much progress, LGBTQ+ students still experience harassment, violence, and lack of affirmation in school settings and the community in general far too often. These experiences can harm LGBTQ+ students' school performance and success, self-esteem, and mental health and can reduce their desire to pursue post-secondary education. Lack of adequate support in schools results in high dropout rates, which leads to high rates of poverty, homelessness and engagement with the criminal justice system for LGBTQ+ people. By fostering safe and inclusive school environments, the Safe and Supportive Schools Act will contribute to the reduction of dropout rates, elevate academic achievement, and create a pathway for a brighter future for all students.
The passage of AB 5 out of the Assembly underscores the commitment of Assemblymember Zbur and fellow lawmakers to prioritize the safety, support, and success of California's students. Assemblymember Zbur would like to give special thanks to our sponsors CFT, the California Teachers Association, Equality California, and State Superintendent of Public Schools Tony Thurmond.
Assemblymember Rick Chavez Zbur represents the 51st Assembly District, which includes the cities of Hollywood, West Hollywood, Beverly Hills, Westwood, Santa Monica and portions of Los Angeles.
CONTACT:
Vienna Montague, (916) 319-2051,
Vienna.Montague@asm.ca.gov