SACRAMENTO
– Yesterday, Assemblymember Ash Kalra (D-San José) was appointed Chair of the Assembly Committee on Judiciary by Speaker Robert Rivas (D-Salinas).
“At a time when California must be vigilant in protecting civil rights, fostering a just legal system, and ensuring everyday consumers are protected, it is an honor to serve as Chair of Judiciary Committee. Having served on this committee for the past seven years under Chairs Stone and Maienschein, I am grateful for their leadership and ready to hit the ground running,” said
Assemblymember Kalra.
“I am thankful to Speaker Robert Rivas for his confidence and this opportunity to further serve the people of California.”
“The justice system is foundational to keeping Californians safe and holding offenders accountable. I’m confident Assemblymember Kalra will fight for the rights of the people who matter most, while ensuring the system itself is just,”
Speaker Robert Rivas
said. “I’m grateful to Assemblymember Maienschein for his hard work and stewardship, and look forward to working with Ash.”
The Assembly Committee on Judiciary’s primary jurisdictions include family law, product liability, tort liability, Civil Code, and Evidence Code (excluding criminal procedure). Assemblymember Kalra had most recently served as Chair of the Assembly Labor and Employment Committee for the past five years.
Assemblymember Kalra has a law degree from Georgetown University and was a Deputy Public Defender for Santa Clara County for 11 years. As a public defender, he represented indigent clients in both felony and misdemeanor matters. In the State Assembly, he has authored successful legislation promoting secure and peaceful communities for all residents, including protecting and preserving civil rights and civil liberties, and has dedicated his tenure in public service to equity and social justice issues.
###
Assemblymember Ash Kalra
represents California’s 25th Assembly District, which encompasses the majority of San José, including downtown and open space areas in southeast Santa Clara County. He was first elected in 2016, becoming the first Indian American to serve in the California Legislature in state history, and was re-elected to his fourth term in 2022. Assemblymember Kalra was previously the Chair of the Committee on Labor & Employment and has served as a member on the Housing & Community Development, Judiciary, Transportation, and Water, Parks, & Wildlife committees.