SACRAMENTO, Calif. — Today, Assemblymember Tasha Boerner’s (D-Encinitas) bill to keep our elderly population engaged and active in California’s legislative process was signed by Governor Gavin Newsom. AB 559 allows people to continue to be able to voluntarily contribute a portion of their tax refund to help the California Senior Legislature advocate for our older communities.
“As we age, we should continue to feel empowered to choose how we live. Sometimes our health and support systems may falter, which is why it is vital we have a voice for our aging population,” said Assemblymember Tasha Boerner. “AB 559 provides people with the opportunity to choose, if they’d like, to contribute a portion of their tax refund to promote advocacy from the California Senior Legislature on behalf of our seniors. Thank you Governor Newsom for signing this legislation and helping us take care of our older folks.”
“The California Senior Legislature is the legislative champion for California seniors with over 40 years of advocacy experience. In an environment where seniors are destined to become the largest population segment in the State, it is critical we have an organization with a clear history of supporting them,” said Janice Bailey, Executive Director of the California Senior Legislature and sponsor of the bill. “We are grateful for Assemblymember Tasha Boerner’s leadership on AB 559 and for the Governor’s signature on this important legislation.”
AB 559 sailed through policy committees and floor votes with bipartisan, unanimous support because the State Legislature recognizes that after their many years of contributing to our communities, it’s only right we have the option to give back to California seniors.
The Franchise Tax Board will revise the return for taxable years 2017 to 2030 to allow taxpayers to provide contributions.
###
Assemblymember Tasha Boerner represents the 77th District, which encompasses Carlsbad, Encinitas, Solana Beach, Del Mar, and the coastal communities of La Jolla south to Downtown and Coronado. You can learn more about Assemblymember Boerner at
a77.asmdc.org
,
Facebook
,
Instagram
, or
Twitter
.