SACRAMENTO, CA-
Assembly Speaker pro Tempore Cecilia Aguiar-Curry (D-Winters) secured $500,000 in the California State Budget to fund pedestrian crosswalk improvements for the intersection of Main Street (State Route 29) and Spring Street in the City of St. Helena.
"Highway 29 is one the most heavily traveled roads in Napa County and is used by residents and visitors alike. The highway runs right through the middle of the City of St. Helena, making the heavily travelled intersection a hazard for pedestrians," said Speaker pro Tempore Aguiar-Curry, "This intersection has been the site of too many collisions and pedestrian injuries, including last year when a person in a wheel chair was struck by a hit and run driver.  Safety is my most important job as an Assemblymember.  I’m proud to be able to contribute to keeping my constituents and our visitors safe with this project.”
The City of St. Helena's "shovel-ready" project would improve the pedestrian crosswalks in this uncontrolled intersection of Main Street (SR 29) and Spring Street. To enhance pedestrian safety at this intersection, the City plans to add bulb-out sidewalk extensions at each crosswalk, rectangular rapid flashing beacons (RRFBs), improved lighting, pavement markings, ADA-compliant curb ramps, and advisory and warning signage.
These improvements will provide robust pedestrian-actuated signaling to drivers with RRFBs, improve pedestrian visibility to drivers and reduce the time pedestrians are in the traffic lanes when crossing the street. The City has already obtained approval from Caltrans to construct these improvements.
“Investing in infrastructure improvements in St. Helena is vital to the health and safety of our community, said Representative Mike Thompson, district four. “The intersection of Spring Street and Highway 29 in St. Helena has led to numerous pedestrian injuries, and it is clear that improvements are needed. The funding secured by Assemblymember Aguiar-Curry for this intersection will help keep pedestrians safe while making essential improvements to crosswalks, lighting, and sidewalks. Thank you to Assemblymember Aguiar-Curry for her work on this project, and I look forward to seeing how this project improves traffic safety in St. Helena.”
"This $500,000 is critically important to help ensure the safety of pedestrians who use the crosswalks at the intersection of Main Street and Spring Street in downtown St. Helena. With these funds, we will be able to increase pedestrian visibility and overall safety by adding bulb-out sidewalk extensions, curb ramps, rectangular rapid flashing beacons (RRFBs), and additional lighting, pavement markings, and signage," said Paul J Dohring, Mayor of City of St. Helena, "Thank you to Caltrans for quickly advancing this project and to Assemblymember Cecilia Aguiar-Curry and her staff for collaborating with us, securing these important state funds, and prioritizing public safety in St. Helena."
This funding will reduce collisions that harm pedestrians crossing the highway to prevent accidents such as the
hit-and-run collision on 5/24/22
that seriously injured a pedestrian in a wheelchair while crossing the existing crosswalk.
Aguiar-Curry represents the 4th Assembly District, which includes all of Yolo, Napa, Colusa, Lake Counties, and parts of Sonoma County.
www.asm.ca.gov/aguiar-curry
###