Sacramento, California
– Today, Assemblymember David Alvarez (D-80th District) introduced Assembly Bill 436, which removes the authorization for a local authority to adopt rules and regulations regarding cruising.
“It is an honor to introduce this bill to acknowledge classic cars and cruising which is an expression of art and a cultural identity for many of us,” said Assemblymember Alvarez. “With a partnership between car clubs, local officials and law enforcement, safe cruising events with lowriders and classic cars can provide a fun and festive event for families in our communities.”
During the 2021-2022 legislative session, Assembly Concurrent Resolution 176 (ACR 176- Luz Rivas) was unanimously approved by the State Legislature.  The resolution encourages cities to repeal their bans and recognizes that cruising holds cultural significance for many communities.  The Alvarez bill would amend the California Vehicle Code to prohibit local authorities from stopping drivers from cruising and driving cars that have been modified to be of a certain height.
Other statements in support:
Assemblywoman Luz Rivas (D – San Fernando Valley):
“When you think of cruising, you think of the San Fernando Valley and Los Angeles. As a member who was born and raised, and represents the San Fernando Valley, cruising is in our DNA. In the 1980’s, California enabled local governments to pass anti-cruising ordinances. Last year, I authored ACR 176 to encourage local cities to repeal this ban. As a result, the City of Sacramento and San Jose lifted their cruising ban, and other car and auto clubs and councils across our state have engaged in discussions with their local governments to remove these old laws. This year, I am proud to be a joint author to Assemblymember Alvarez’s proposal to repeal the archaic state law that enables locals to ban cruising.”
California Lowrider Alliance:
“As the California Lowrider Alliance and its diverse members, we stand in solidarity to repeal the no cruising ordinance throughout the state of California to diminish the injustice and intolerance towards the Lowriding community and bring justice for the future of the culture and subsequent generations.”
Francine Mata, Chair, Sacramento Lowrider Commission:
“The Sacramento Lowrider Commission is excited that Assemblymember Alvarez is taking forward the bill to repeal existing traffic laws that prevents cruising. This bill celebrates and embraces our art canvas on wheels-- low and slow cruising in every city and county in California.”
Olivia Fonseca, Sacramento Lowrider Commission member and cruising enthusiast since 1971:
"I am excited to support Assemblymember Alvarez to remove the ban on cruising in the entire state of California. This bill celebrates and preserves our multicultural lowrider lifestyles - low and slow, is not a crime.”
AB 436 would amend the California Vehicle Code to prohibit local authorities from stopping drivers from cruising and driving cars that have been modified to be of a certain height.