Santa Maria, CA – Today Senator Monique Limón and Assemblymember Gregg Hart are excited to announce the grand opening of their Santa Maria District Office. Community members are cordially invited to visit the new office for an Open House on Tuesday, November 14th from 4-6 pm.
What:
Santa Maria District Office Grand Opening and Community Open House with Senator Monique Limón and Assemblymember Gregg Hart
When:
Tuesday, November 14th from 4-6 pm
Where:
1111 S Broadway, Suite 101
"Opening an office in Santa Maria is important in expanding access to critical state information and resources in our community," said Senator Limón. "I am excited to open our doors in Santa Maria and continue working in partnership with Assemblymember Hart to deliver for the Central Coast."
"The opening of the Santa Maria District office will increase access to State resources for residents, businesses, and service providers in the Santa Maria Valley," said Assemblymember Hart. "I am excited for the partnership with Senator Limón, and look forward to our continued work ahead to represent the Central Coast in Sacramento."
The Santa Maria Office will be dedicated to assisting community members with their concerns, questions, and issues related to State government services and policies.
Monique Limón represents the 19th Senate District, which includes Santa Barbara, Ventura, Goleta, Carpinteria, Ojai, Santa Paula, Fillmore, Buellton, Solvang, Summerland, Isla Vista, Montecito and parts of Oxnard. She currently serves as the Chair of the Senate Committee on Banking and Financial Institution and the Select Committee on the Nonprofit Sector.
Gregg Hart represents the California Assembly's 37th Assembly District, which includes Santa Barbara, Goleta, Carpinteria, Buellton, Solvang, Lompoc, Guadalupe, Santa Maria, Orcutt, and Nipomo. He currently serves as the California Assembly's Assistant Majority Leader under Speaker Robert Rivas.
CONTACT:
Asm. Hart: Jimmy Wittrock (916) 319-2037, jimmy.wittrock@asm.ca.gov
Sen. Limón: Christina Montoya (916) 524-3396, Christina.montoya@sen.ca.gov