EAST PALO ALTO –
Assemblymember Diane Papan presented a check for $2 million to the City of East Palo Alto
for critical water system improvements
. The grant is a state budget allocation championed and secured by Assemblymember Papan.
“Presently, the old and corroded water main serving the East Palo Alto’s civic facilities is beyond its useful life and delivers frequently discolored water that is inadequate for residents, visitors, and employees alike,” said Papan. “Maintaining clean and reliable water infrastructure is not just good management of public works but necessary to support quality of life.”
This funding will facilitate the replacement of the water main that serves the East Palo Alto Government Center which houses the City Hall, the County Human Services Agency, the public library and many other essential services. In East Palo Alto, 70 percent of the City’s water distribution pipelines are below minimum standards, and some are over 100 years old.  The City has approximately $90 million of costs to upgrade its aging and deteriorating water distribution system to meet environmental requirements and to maintain the reliability and safety the community expects and deserves.
“Replacing this water main will improve the reliability of our local water system and represents a significant leap forward in addressing an aging and deteriorating water distribution system in East Palo Alto,” said Mayor Lisa Gauthier. “The City of East Palo Alto is extremely grateful to Assemblymember Papan for securing support for this critical project.”
The $2 million funding will bridge a funding gap for the City to cover the costs of $8 million needed to replace the water main.
The new water main will provide reliable water supply and improved water pressure for future development projects citywide.
Specifically, the City will install a
new 12" polyvinyl chloride (PVC) transmission main on University Avenue between O'Brien Drive and Bay Road and replace the existing 8" cast iron main on University Avenue between Bay Road and Donohoe Street with a new 12" PVC
. This
City has already committed
$5,656,000 to the project, of which $4,156,000 are City funds.
The City anticipates the replacement of the water main by June 2024.