SACRAMENTO -
Assemblymember Dr. Corey A. Jackson
, joined by co-author
Assemblymember Ash Kalra,
introduced a groundbreaking bill on Monday, February 13th, to prohibit the use of police canines for arrest, apprehension, and crowd control. The bill aims to end a deeply racialized and harmful practice that has been a mainstay in America's history of racial bias and violence against Black Americans and people of color.
"The use of police canines has inflicted brutal violence and lifelong trauma on Black Americans and communities of color," said
Assemblymember Dr. Corey A. Jackson
. "This bill marks a turning point in the fight to end this cruel and inhumane practice and build trust between the police and the communities they serve."
ACLU California Action, a co-sponsor of the bill, echoed Assemblymember Dr. Corey A. Jackson's concerns. "The use of police canines has severe and potentially deadly consequences for bite victims, especially communities of color," said
Carlos Marquez III, Executive Director of ACLU California Action.
"This bill sets a new standard for California and marks an important step in ending this inhumane practice."
The CA/HI NAACP, a co-sponsor, emphasizes the historical significance of this bill. "Police canines have roots in slavery and have been used as tools of oppression for Black, Brown, and other communities of color," said
Rick L. Callender, ESQ
.,
President of the CA/HI NAACP.
"With this bill, we sever ties with the terrorizing past and move towards a brighter future."
It is important to note that this bill will not prevent the use of police canines for search and rescue, explosives detection, and narcotics detection that do not involve biting.
The press conference was held on the west side of the Capitol building, on the pathway facing the intersection of 10th and N, and was also streamed live on Assemblymember Dr. Corey A. Jackson's Facebook page and
YouTube
for those unable to attend.
AB 742
has been introduced and is pending referral in the Assembly.