FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: April 20, 2023
CONTACT:
Jillena.Hernandez@asm.ca.gov
or 916-281-4832
“One Pill Can Kill” Awareness Campaign and Legislation to address Fentanyl Crisis
SACRAMENTO ----
Today,
Assemblywoman Cottie Petrie-Norris (D-Irvine), along with A
ssemblywoman Liz Ortega (D-Alameda), Assemblywoman Esmeralda Soria, (D-Fresno), and Senator Dave Cortese, (D-Santa Clara), held a press conference to
discuss their legislative priorities to address the fentanyl crisis and announce the statewide rollout of the DEA’s “One Pill Can Kill” campaign.
Fentanyl is one of the most dangerous and deadly drugs circulating on the illegal drug market - just 2 milligrams is enough to kill. According to the California Department of Public Health, statewide fentanyl deaths increased from 239 deaths in 2016 to 3,946 in 2020. In California, 71% of all opioid related deaths in 2020 were a result of fentanyl poisoning.
"My colleagues and I are working with urgency to address this crisis in a meaningful way and enact policies to keep our families safe,” said Assemblywoman Petrie-Norris. “This drug is ravaging our communities every day. Kids are dying. We need a comprehensive approach that includes more money for drug treatment, stronger enforcement of our laws, and better partnerships with stakeholders – including law enforcement, social media companies, schools, and local governments.”
Assemblywoman Petrie-Norris has introduced two bills to help address this deadly trend.  AB 1027 aims to prevent fentanyl poisoning by enacting more stringent data collection and storage requirements for social media companies. AB 955 would increase penalties applied to those convicted of fentanyl sales by imprisonment in a county jail for a period of 3, 6, or 9 years.
The Assemblywoman also launched the statewide rollout of the DEA’s fentanyl awareness campaign, “One Pill Can Kill” to educate the public about the dangers of fentanyl.  Elements will include how to recognize fentanyl, how get help in the event of an overdose, and highlight the severity of ingesting even a miniscule amount.  The awareness campaign can be found at
https://a73.asmdc.org/end-fentanyl-poisoning
.
“Many legislators are trying to address this crisis by closing all policy loopholes to ensure that our public safety entities have every tool they need to fight this epidemic.  It is my hope that we can continue this important conversation as these bills move through the legislature.
It is clear that this crisis is urgent and immediate action is vital.”
What people are saying
Assemblywoman Cottie Petrie-Norris (D-Irvine), Author of AB 1027 and AB 955
said, “My colleagues and I are working with urgency to address this crisis in a meaningful way and enact policies to keep our communities safe. This drug is ravaging our communities every day. Kids are dying. We need a comprehensive approach that includes more money for drug treatment, stronger enforcement of our laws, and better partnerships with stakeholders – including law enforcement, social media companies, schools, and local governments.”
Senator Thomas J. Umberg, (D-Santa Ana), Author of SB 44, SB 250, and SB 60
said, “As lawmakers, we have a moral, ethical, and legal obligation to protect lives in California.  The scourge of fentanyl and specifically, fentanyl poisonings, is unlike anything we have ever seen. We absolutely must do everything we can to save lives and put tools into the hands of those on the ground who are fighting this epidemic: families, nurses, doctors, teachers, and law enforcement alike. I’m proud to stand with my colleagues in both houses as we prioritize this issue in 2023.”
Senator Dave Cortese (D-San Jose), Author of SB 10
said, “
Fentanyl is responsible for an astounding one in five deaths of young people in California. We cannot continue to allow more young people to die,” said Senator Dave Cortese, D-San Jose. “My SB 10 would create opioid prevention and education programs in schools. We want to give school staff, students, and their families’ information about the danger of this lethal drug, and we want to arm educators with the knowledge and tools to save children who overdose on campus.
I join my colleagues in meeting this crisis with urgency and sweeping action.”
Assemblywoman Esmeralda Soria (D-Fresno) Author of AB 1060
said, “We must continue to pass legislation to uphold the safety of our constituents and prevent dangerous encounters with fentanyl and other controlled substances.”
Assemblywoman Cottie Petrie-Norris represents California’s 73rd District including Costa Mesa, Irvine and Tustin. She is the Chair of the Accountability and Administrative Review Committee. After working her way through Yale University, where she double majored in Economics and English, Cottie had a successful 20-year career in finance and technology. She helped to build businesses and led teams at Fortune 500 corporations, small companies and start-ups. Follow the Assemblywoman on Twitter https://twitter.com/AsmCottie or on Facebook https://www.facebook.com/AssemblywomanCPN.