(Sacramento) Today, Assemblymember Alvarez celebrates and thanks Governor Newsom for signing Assembly Bill 427 into law. This legislation will allow the San Diego Association of Governments (SANDAG) to use the Construction Manager/General Contractor method (CMGC) for the Otay Mesa Port of Entry project. Additionally, the bill allows for better collaboration on project costs, schedules, and risk mitigation, which are crucial for a project with regional and national significance. The project is a joint effort between SANDAG and Caltrans in collaboration with state and federal partners between the United States and Mexican governments, and is expected to reduce peak wait times at existing border-crossings in the region by up to 50%.
"I appreciate the support of my colleagues in the Legislature and Governor Newsom for passing this bill to expedite the construction of this new port of entry," said
Assemblymember David Alvarez
. "We need to work on everything that helps people cross the border faster and for our binational economy to grow."
The CMGC method is an essential tool to streamline construction projects by allowing the construction manager to be involved during the project's design phase, which reduces cost overruns and improves project delivery timelines.
“The Otay Mesa East Port of Entry project is a top SANDAG priority, as it will bolster our local economy and improve quality of life for residents, visitors, and businesses in our region,” said
SANDAG and San Diego County Supervisor Chairwoman Nora Vargas
. “We are grateful that Asm. Alvarez authored this legislation, and thank Senator Padilla for carrying the bill through the Senate."
This will allow SANDAG to select a contractor earlier in the process to act in an advisory role and enables better collaboration on project cost, schedules and risk mitigation which are important for a project with regional and national significance.
###
The 80th Assembly District includes the communities of Barrio Logan, Logan Heights, Sherman Heights, Bonita, Lincoln Acres, Otay Mesa and San Ysidro, along with the cities of Chula Vista, National City and Imperial Beach.