Sacramento, CA
– Today, Assemblymember Calderon (D – Whittier) recognizes the Diamond Bar Friends of the Library as the 2023 California Nonprofit of the Year for the 56th Assembly District.
“The Diamond Bar Friends of the Library have worked tirelessly to increase access to books and literary programs,”
stated Assemblymember Calderon
. “While libraries across the nation are under attack and books are being banned, this organization ensures that the community continues to enjoy great literary works. I am so thrilled to name the Diamond Bar Friends of the Library as the 56th Assembly District’s Nonprofit of the Year.”
The Diamond Bar Friends of the Library (“the Friends”) is an all-volunteer organization that was established in 1977 and incorporated as a nonprofit in 1996. Their mission is to support the library and encourage literacy in the community. To do that, they engage in fundraising activities throughout the year and sponsor events that highlight reading and the resources of the Diamond Bar Library.
With the funds raised each year, they help underwrite the cost of the library’s Summer Reading Programs for children, teens and adults, as well as many special programs and activities presented at the library throughout the year. One of their staple programs, “Read Together Diamond Bar”, unites people of all ages and backgrounds by assigning a book and activities around it, culminating in a weekend discussion with the authors. The Friends also fund the purchase of new books, materials and media for the library’s collections, as well as pay the expenses of capital improvement projects at the library.
This is the eighth year of the California Nonprofit of the Year initiative, a statewide effort honoring the critical role nonprofit organizations play in California.
“When anyone talks about delivering meals to seniors, inspiring with music, protecting fresh water, educating children, championing the disadvantaged, speaking out for human rights, caring for animals . . . they are talking about work that nonprofits do,”
noted Jan Masaoka
, CEO of CalNonprofits, which serves as a partner for this awards program. “California Nonprofit of the Year gives elected leaders the opportunity to shine a light on what nonprofits are accomplishing for the people in their districts and for everyone to appreciate the collective impact of nonprofits across our state.”
The Diamond Bar Friend of the Library will be honored at the State Capitol this June as part of an annual tradition to recognize all the honorees across California.
###
Contact
: Alberto Ruiz,
alberto.ruiz@asm.ca.gov