SACRAMENTO
– Today, June 7
th
, Assemblywoman Soria recognized Valley Onward as Assembly District 27’s 2023 California Non-Profit of the Year.
Valley Onward is a Central Valley nonprofit centered on health equity and empowering women, people of color, and disinvested communities in Merced County. Valley Onward serves a large geographic area that includes South Merced, Planada, Le Grand, and Beachwood/Franklin.  The organization has facilitated technical trainings, participatory budget meetings, COVID-19 informational sessions and vaccine clinics, food box distributions, and so much more. Valley Onward continues to empower youth an lead communities in Merced to become more civically engaged.
“At Valley Onward we are deeply humbled to be recognized by Assemblywoman Soria as one of the 2023 California Nonprofits of the Year,” shared Sol Rivas, Valley Onward Executive Director. “There are so many others that are equally deserving, We are honored to be one amongst the many outstanding nonprofits in our state and nation that work tirelessly to improve conditions in our community. “
This is the eighth year of the California Nonprofit of the Year initiative, a state-wide effort honoring the critical role nonprofit organizations play in California.
“When anyone talks about delivering meals to seniors, inspiring with music, protecting fresh water, educating children, championing the disadvantged, speaking out for human rights, caring for animals . . . they are talking about work that nonprofits do,” noted Jan Masaoka, CEO of the California Association of Nonprofits (CalNonprofits), which serves as a partner for this awards program. “California Nonprofit of the Year gives elected leaders the opportunity to shine a light on what nonprofits are accomplishing for the people in their districts and for everyone to appreciate the collective impact of nonprofits across our state..”
Congratulations, Valley Onward!
###
Assemblywoman Esmeralda Soria represents the 27th Assembly District which includes communities in Fresno, Madera, and Merced counties.