Sacramento – Assemblymember Dawn Addis (D-Morro Bay) has been appointed by Speaker Robert Rivas as the Assistant Majority Leader of Policy and Research. Addis will lead the Assembly Office of Research and Policy and will oversee a staff of experienced policy experts who analyze and research the pressing issues California is facing, including climate change, economic inequality and housing.
“I’m grateful to have Assemblymember Addis on our team, working with our top policy experts, leading on analysis and taking action on the critical issues facing all Californians,” Speaker Rivas said. “Our caucus requires a deep understanding of the issues, and I look forward to working with Dawn as we unlock solutions that serve our 40 million residents.”
“I’m thankful to Speaker Rivas for entrusting me with such an important leadership position,” Addis said. “The Central Coast district that I represent shares the challenges facing the rest of the state and I’m looking forward to working on innovative policy solutions that benefit Central Coast residents and all Californians in the years ahead.”
For the past year, Addis was assigned seats on the Natural Resources, Higher Education, Veterans Affairs, Public Employment and Retirement, and Rules Committees. Addis had six bills signed by Governor Gavin Newsom, including
legislation to remove barriers that prevent minors who have experienced sexual abuse from seeking justice against their abusers
, enhance housing options for
seniors
and
community college students
and
legislation to further opportunity for multilingual students
.
In addition, Addis Chairs the Central Coast Legislative Caucus, is the Assembly appointee to the California Ocean Protection Council and chairs two Assembly select committees: The Select Committee on Offshore Wind Energy in California and the Select Committee on Serving Students with Disabilities.
The Assembly Office of Policy and Research seeks to translate research into good public policy for the Assembly Democratic Caucus. The dedicated, experienced staff of the office researches and analyses complex policy issues for Assemblymembers and their staff, leadership offices and Assembly committees.
Dawn Addis was elected to the California State Assembly in 2022 to represent the coastal 30th Assembly District, which includes large portions of San Luis Obispo and Monterey Counties and the south-eastern area of Santa Cruz County.
CONTACT:
Jim Evans, 916-319-2030