ALHAMBRA, CA
– Assemblymember Mike Fong (D – Alhambra) presented a symbolic check for $25 million to the Alhambra City Council. The funds will be used to construct a Community Center at the site of the former Shorb Health Clinic on West Shorb St. and South 6th St.
“I am honored to help secure $25 million for a Community Center in the heart of the City of Alhambra. Thank you to my colleagues in the State Legislature and Governor Gavin Newsom for prioritizing community spaces that bring people together,” said Assemblymember Fong.
“Thanks to the City’s partnership with Assemblymember Mike Fong and Senator Susan Rubio, Alhambra has the resources it needs to move forward with our dream of creating a community space for students, families, seniors, and everyone in Alhambra,” said Alhambra Mayor Adele Andrade-Stadler.
Assemblymember Fong toured the shuttered building, which has been vacant since the 1990s. The City Council and staff shared design ideas and development plans for the Community Center with Assemblymember Fong.
The $25 million allocation for development of the Alhambra Community Center was secured by the efforts of Assemblymember Mike Fong and Senator Susan Rubio as part of the 2022-2023 California State Budget signed by Governor Newsom on July 1, 2022.
加州州衆議員方樹強宣布为阿尔汉布拉社区中心提供2500万美元的州政府资金
加州州眾議員方樹強向阿罕布拉市議會遞交了一張價值 2500 萬美元的象徵性支票。這些資金將用於在西 Shorb 街和南 6 街的前 Shorb 健康診所舊址上建造一個社區中心。
方議員說：“我很榮幸能夠幫助在阿罕布拉市的中心為社區中心爭取到2500萬美元的資金。感謝我在州議會的同事和州長Gavin Newsom優先考慮將人們聚集在一起的社區空間。”
阿罕布拉市長 Adele Andrade-Stadler 說：“感謝市府與眾議員Mike Fong和參議員Susan Rubio的合作，阿罕布拉市有必要的資源來推進我們的夢想，為學生、家庭、老人和阿罕布拉市的每個人創造一個社區空間。”
方議員參觀了這棟自1990年代以來一直空置的大樓。市議會和工作人員與方議員分享了社區中心的設計理念和發展計劃。
在眾議員方樹強和參議員Susan Rubio的努力下，阿罕布拉社區中心的發展獲得了2500萬美元的撥款，作為2022-2023年加州預算的一部分，由州長Newsom在2022年7月1日簽署。
###
Assemblymember Mike Fong represents the 49th Assembly District, which includes the cities of Alhambra, Arcadia, El Monte, Monterey Park, Rosemead, San Gabriel, San Marino, South Pasadena and Temple City, and the unincorporated areas of Pasadena and San Gabriel.  He serves as the Chair of the Assembly Higher Education Committee and the Assembly Vice Chair of the Asian American Pacific Islander Legislative Caucus.