Long Beach, Calif. – On December 6, 2023, Senator Lena Gonzalez (D-Long Beach) and Assemblymember Josh Lowenthal (D-Long Beach) presented $10 million in funds for the Museum of Latin American Art (MOLAA) located in Long Beach. Since its establishment in 1996, the museum has served the Greater Los Angeles area to provide unique opportunities for educators, students, families and visitors of all ages to learn about modern and contemporary Latin American and Latino art. MOLAA provides a great variety of low-cost and free events and resources, including, educational programming, their Day of the Dead festival, tours of their collection and exhibitions, workshops for children and online tools for educators.
“As Vice Chair of the Latino Caucus, it is a great honor to support The Museum of Latin American Art in their mission to uplift the unique history and culture of Latino communities from across the globe and to celebrate the diversity of our state,” said Senator Lena Gonzalez (D-Long Beach). “For many years, MOLAA has provided valuable resources and opportunities for educators, artists and the public to learn and engage with Latino art, history and culture, and I look forward to seeing how their work and impact grows with this new funding, as they continue to serve our community.”
“Working with my colleagues to secure funding for MOLAA was a no-brainer,” said Assemblymember Josh Lowenthal (D-Long Beach). “Long Beach is a city rich in culture and we are so fortunate to be its home. This expansion will ensure that it remains at the intersection of the arts and culture for years to come.”
“The Museum of Latin American Art (MOLAA) which has been serving the community for 28 years - unique in its nature and accredited by the American Alliance of Museums in the United States - is honored to receive this budget allocation, which is key to laying the foundation for institutional expansion to better serve our visitors,” said Lourdes I. Ramos, Ph.D., President & CEO, Museum of Latin American Art. “MOLAA exalts the highest values of the Latino/a/x community for a national and international impact. We are grateful to Senator Gonzalez, the Latino Caucus and Assemblymember Josh Lowenthal for the support provided.”