SACRAMENTO, CA
– Speaker Robert Rivas has appointed Assemblymember Damon Connolly (D-San Rafael) to serve as Chair of the esteemed Joint Committee on Fairs Allocation and Classification. Assemblymember Connolly's appointment reflects his dedication to preserving California's rich agricultural traditions, promoting education, and enhancing community benefits across the state.
"I am honored and humbled to accept this appointment as Chair of the Joint Committee on Fairs Allocation and Classification," said Assemblymember Connolly. "Fairs play a pivotal role in the North Bay. Over the past few years, they have served as emergency and evacuation sites during wildfires. I am incredibly honored to have been appointed this chairmanship and look forward to receiving local and statewide input on how we can best utilize our historic fairgrounds.”
As Chair, Assemblymember Connolly will lead the examination of the inner-workings of the fair industry in California. With a focus on regulatory and funding challenges, the committee aims to develop innovative solutions that will ensure the continued prosperity of fairs and their invaluable contributions to our state. Fairs hold a special place in California's heritage, serving as vibrant gathering places where communities come together to celebrate, learn, and connect. They are not only a reflection of our diverse cultural tapestry but also crucial platforms for agricultural innovation, economic growth, and educational opportunities.
Under Assemblymember Connolly's leadership, the Joint Committee on Fairs Allocation and Classification will engage in comprehensive research, gather input from stakeholders, and identify opportunities to enhance the fair experience for all Californians. The committee will develop forward-thinking policies and initiatives aimed at securing funding, streamlining regulations, and promoting innovation within the fair industry.
###
Assemblymember Connolly represents the entirety of Marin County and Southern Sonoma County