SACRAMENTO, Calif.
(Oct 26, 2023) --- On Wednesday night the U.S.’s deadliest mass shooting of 2023 took place at a bowling alley in Lewiston, Maine.
Assemblymember Mike A. Gipson (D-Carson)
extended his heartfelt condolences to the families and loved ones of the 18 innocent lives lost, and the 13 others injured, while also condemning the act and calling on federal action to prevent future tragedies.
“My prayers and thoughts go out to those who lost their loved ones and the survivors who bear the physical and emotional wounds of this tragedy,” said
Assemblymember Mike A Gipson (D-Carson)
. “I strongly condemn the atrocities committed by the murderer that claimed the lives of so many, and we cannot allow this pattern to continue. We must ask ourselves, how many more lives must be lost before our great nation embraces stricter laws to ban these weapons of war from our streets? How many more mothers and fathers will have to face the unbearable grief of losing a child before this country wakes up and takes action? As U.S. Representative Johnson takes up the mantle of Speaker of the House, I call upon him, in a bipartisan effort, to create federal legislation that bans assault weapons in our country, and I emphasize that it must be a permanent ban. We need to show the American people that we are listening to their voices, and the voices lost to mass shootings were not silenced in vain. Let us come together to enact legislation that saves lives and ensures a safer, more peaceful future for all. The time for action is now, and I stand ready to support initiatives that will address the pressing issue of gun violence in our country. Together, we can make a difference and put an end to the senseless loss of life.”
As our nation grapples with yet another senseless act of violence, Assemblymember Gipson emphasizes the pressing need to take concrete action to prevent further loss of life and calls upon Speaker Johnson to lead the way in enacting comprehensive, permanent federal legislation to ban assault weapons.
Assemblymember Mike A. Gipson proudly represents the 65th Assembly District which includes the cities and communities of Watts, Willowbrook, Compton, Carson, North Long Beach, Harbor Gateway North & South, Harbor City, Wilmington, and San Pedro