SACRAMENTO, CA—
Speaker of the Assembly Robert Rivas (D-Salinas) commends and expresses his gratitude to Assemblymember Jim Wood (D-Healdsburg), who on Friday announced plans to not seek re-election after the 2024 legislative year.
Representing communities in Sonoma, Mendocino, Humboldt, Del Norte and Trinity counties, Assemblymember Wood has served nearly two decades in elected office, including currently his fifth term in the California State Assembly.
“Jim Wood will go down as one of our most distinguished legislators,” Speaker Rivas said. “His love for our state knows no bounds, and he’s committed a lifetime to ensuring future generations can realize the California Dream. I thank Jim on behalf of the entire Caucus, for all his achievements and dedication, and I’m also proud to call him a dear friend and trusted colleague.”
“Deciding not to run for my final term was one of the most difficult decisions I have had to make in many years,” Assemblymember Wood said. “I can make a case to continue my work, but I believe now is the right time for me to change my focus.”
Assemblymember Wood has chaired the Assembly Health Committee since 2016, passing critical legislation to protect and expand access to medical, dental and behavioral health care. In 2022, he led efforts to establish the Office of Health Care Affordability, ensuring more accountability for costs.
“As chair of the Assembly Health Committee, I’m proud that our state has taken a leadership role on so many of the most pressing issues,” Assemblymember Wood said. “I’ve taken on virtually every entity within the expansive health care industrial complex, and always with the end goal of improving the quality of health care and making it affordable and accessible for all Californians.”
Assemblymember Wood also has fought to protect communities from dangerous wildfires, by improving statewide home-hardening standards and insurance options in wildland-urban interface areas. In addition, he has expanded broadband access to rural communities across the state.
Elected to represent the Second Assembly District in 2014, Assemblymember Wood says he is committed to delivering for his constituents and all Californians during his final legislative year.
“I’ve known for a very long time that our Speaker, Robert Rivas, would be a strong leader and the right person to lead our Caucus and the entire Assembly into the future,” Assemblymember Wood said. “I have found him to be a true friend and someone who understands the common interest we have in supporting and protecting the people in our rural communities and how their needs are unique, oftentimes requiring unique policies and solutions. I’m so grateful to be working with Speaker Rivas and it makes me proud to serve and extremely optimistic for California’s future.”
“I look forward to working with Assemblymember Wood into 2024, in particular on health care priorities, as he completes a decade of service in the California State Assembly,” Speaker Rivas said.
###