SACRAMENTO—Assemblymember James C. Ramos (D-San Bernardino) announced $35 million in new funding in the 2023-24 state budget will assist in meeting regional needs in his district, including a portion that the Inland Empire will share with other areas around the state. The items include:
$5 million to the City of San Bernardino for the Seccombe Lake Park Project approximately 0.6 miles from Seccombe Lake Park, that could be used to develop a new 12.5 acre park and community garden as part of a larger campus, that would include an emergency shelter and permanent supportive housing facility for homeless individuals.
$1 million to the Inland Empire Community Foundation for the group’s Black Equity Initiative.
$6 million for the State Department of Health Care Services to support the distribution of fentanyl test strips for CSUs and Community Colleges (to be distributed statewide).
Other regional budget items included:
$2 million to the City of Redlands for the Museum of Redlands Construction completion.
$3 million to the City of Fontana for the Fontana Downtown Plan.
$1,500,000 for the County of San Bernardino to purchase front loader and skid steer snow blowers.
$1.5 million for the County of San Bernardino to buy two mobile health clinics.
$2 million to the County of San Bernardino for the Fontana Crisis Residential Treatment Facility Refurbishment.
$2 million for the County of San Bernardino to refurbish the county’s Crisis Residential Treatment Facility in Victorville.
Ramos, who has fought to include greater resources to combat Missing and Murdered Indigenous People, lauded the approval of $16 million for competitive statewide grants to federally recognized Indian tribes in California to identify, collect case-level data, publicize, investigate and solve cases involving missing and murdered indigenous people.
Ramos stated, “I am glad that these items that will benefit our community and others around the state have been funded. They will make a difference.”
###
Assemblymember James C. Ramos proudly represents the 45th Assembly district which includes the Cities of Fontana, Highland, Mentone, Redlands, Rialto and San Bernardino. He is the first and only California Native American serving in the state’s legislature. Ramos chairs the Assembly Committees on Rules.