AB 877 Inspired by Winter Storms
SACRAMENTO — Assemblymember Dawn Addis (D-Morro Bay) introduced legislation today to create the "Good Neighbor Tax Credit," a tax incentive for hotels, inns, and other entities in the hospitality sector to temporarily house displaced individuals during a declared state of emergency.
"The winter storms on the Central Coast showed us that despite the best intentions of government and civic groups, it's difficult for displaced residents to find emergency temporary housing," Addis said. "The Good Neighbor Tax Credit will give hotels a tool that will help people who have suffered terrible personal losses get back on their feet."
The legislation,
Assembly Bill 877
, is pending referral to a committee in the State Assembly.
In January, the state experienced severe winter storms, prompting emergency declarations from both the state and federal government. The Central Coast was hit particularly hard – Monterey, Santa Cruz and San Luis Obispo counties were all deemed major disaster areas by President Joe Biden.
The Good Neighbor Tax Credit would allow small businesses such as hotels, inns, and motels to claim a tax credit if they house victims of a natural disaster free of charge. In order to claim the credit, the establishment would need to be located in a county that was in a state of emergency, declared by either the Governor of California or the President of the United States. The credit would apply to establishments with under 50 total rooms, ensuring that small businesses are the target of this relief.
Dawn Addis was elected to the California State Assembly in 2022 to represent the 30th Assembly District. Dawn is a special education teacher who began teaching in public schools over 20 years ago, and holds a Master of Arts (MA) degree in special education from San Francisco State University. She has teaching credentials in elementary education, secondary education and special education and is fluent in Spanish. Dawn's long record of community involvement includes co-founding the Women's March in San Luis Obispo and being a Planned Parenthood Central Coast Action Fund board member. In 2018, she won her first elected office, Morro Bay City Council, and served from 2018 to 2022. Dawn is the first Democrat to represent the majority of San Luis Obispo County in the State Assembly since 1947. She is also the first Democrat from San Luis Obispo County to serve in the State Assembly since 1922 and the first Democratic woman ever to hold this seat. Dawn and her husband Marcus have raised two children on the Central Coast and they have one rescue cat named Oppenheimer.
CONTACT:
Jim Evans, 916-319-2030