SACRAMENTO, CA
– Assemblymember Mike Fong (D-Alhambra) and nearly 50 additional California state legislators sent a letter urging President Joe Biden, Senate Majority Leader Chuck Schumer, and House Speaker Kevin McCarthy to pass commonsense gun safety reforms to protect the American public from the threat of gun violence.
“On January 21, 2023, we lost precious lives due to gun violence in Monterey Park. My community is part of a too-long list of places that has experienced a mass shooting. While I am proud that California leads our nation in sensible gun reform, devastating mass shootings will continue unless our federal leaders take meaningful action. Thank you to my colleagues for standing up and demanding reforms that will make our communities safer,” said Assemblymember Fong.
According to the Giffords Law Center’s 2021 Gun Law Scorecard, over the last decade, gun violence has risen by 22% across the country, and states with the weakest gun laws have been hit the hardest. An inconsistent patchwork of state gun laws allows guns to flow from states with weaker gun laws to states, like California, that have taken decisive action on gun reform.
Assemblymember Fong applauds President Biden’s Executive Order on Reducing Gun Violence and Making Our Communities Safer, a measure that will move the country closer to universal background checks and increase awareness about existing tools to keep guns out of the hands of dangerous individuals.
The letter sent today urges Congressional leaders to do their part and pass sensible gun legislation to prevent more mass shootings and deaths of innocent victims.
###
Assemblymember Mike Fong represents the 49th Assembly District, which includes the cities of Alhambra, Arcadia, El Monte, Monterey Park, Rosemead, San Gabriel, San Marino, South Pasadena and Temple City, and the unincorporated areas of Pasadena and San Gabriel.  He serves as the Chair of the Assembly Higher Education Committee, the Assembly Vice Chair of the Asian American Pacific Islander Legislative Caucus, and the Vice Chair of the San Gabriel Valley Caucus.