SACRAMENTO, CA —
Assemblymember Rick Chavez Zbur (D-Hollywood) announced today that AB 3, the California Offshore Wind and Jobs Advancement Act, has been signed into law by Governor Gavin Newsom. This bill is designed to provide critical infrastructure and regulatory frameworks to support the development of offshore wind projects along the state's coastline while keeping high-paying jobs in California.
"I am truly grateful to see my legislation signed into law by Governor Gavin Newsom, who recognizes the importance of addressing the climate crisis with bold action," said Assemblymember Rick Chavez Zbur. "With the state's expansive coastline and nearly constant winds, we can build and utilize this renewable resource that can and will play a major role in helping the state achieve 100 percent clean electricity and carbon neutrality. But we must begin now in order to achieve our ambitious climate goals, while also protecting California's cultural and natural resources, and bringing to California thousands of high-skill and high-wage jobs."
California has a robust offshore wind generation target of 25 gigawatts by 2045, enough to power 25 million homes by mid-century. The state will need to quickly, yet carefully, build the necessary infrastructure, such as new and expanded port facilities, to facilitate progress. AB 3 requires the California Energy Commission (CEC) to work with relevant state entities to develop a second-phase plan for seaport readiness as well as study the feasibility of maximizing in-state assembly and manufacturing job opportunities.
Assemblymember Zbur would like to give special thanks to the bill's sponsor, Environment California.
"AB 3 by Assemblymember Zbur is a crucial step to moving forward with offshore wind," said
Environment California Senior Adviser Dan Jacobson.
"Numerous reports have shown that more infrastructure for the ports is critical to hitting our goals for offshore wind, and the supply chain gives us the opportunity to maximize the economic benefits for a clean energy economy."
Assemblymember Zbur would also like to thank the State Building and Construction Trades Council of California for their support.
"We appreciate the Governor's commitment to harnessing the Pacific winds," said
Chris Hannan, President of the State Building and Construction Trades Council of California.
"In signing Assembly Bill 3, California takes another step closer to realizing the potential of offshore wind generation. We are grateful for Assemblymember Zbur's leadership on this important bill and his continued partnership with the Building Trades."
All statutes take effect January 1, 2024. The legislature reconvenes on January 3, 2024.
Assemblymember Rick Chavez Zbur serves as the Democratic Caucus Chair for the California State Assembly and represents the 51st Assembly District, including Hollywood, West Hollywood, Beverly Hills, Westwood, Santa Monica, and portions of Los Angeles.
CONTACT:
Vienna Montague, (916) 319-2051, Vienna.Montague@asm.ca.gov