SACRAMENTO
—
Assemblywoman Cottie Petrie-Norris recognized Trellis as the 2023 Nonprofit of the Year for the 73rd Assembly District as part of California Nonprofits Day held on June 7.
“Trellis is truly worthy of recognition for the work they do in the community, especially through their neighboring initiatives like Love Costa Mesa and Labors of Love,”
said Assemblywoman Cottie Petrie-Norris.
“Trellis has shown incredible leadership, working alongside Orange County cities and leaders to provide services that address homelessness, food insecurity, elderly isolation, and educational challenges, as well as promote good neighboring throughout our cities.”
“Trellis is deeply honored to receive the Nonprofit of the Year award from Assemblywoman Cottie Petrie-Norris. Thriving communities are built at the city and county levels. We have spent the last ten years uniting the municipality, neighborhoods, schools, and faith communities of the City of Costa Mesa,”
said Ian Stevenson, Executive Director of Trellis
. “Incredible changes in the City of Costa Mesa have come to fruition as we partnered together to create change, from mass food distribution during the pandemic to resourcing students dealing with learning loss to housing the unhoused. Our united community is working together to create sustainable change in the city that we love, and we are so excited to partner with Assemblywoman Cottie Petrie-Norris in our efforts in Costa Mesa and Orange County,” Stevenson said.
Assemblywoman Petrie-Norris honored Trellis on May 22 during Love Costa Mesa Day, which is a citywide initiative led by Trellis that brings together hundreds of volunteers for projects in Costa Mesa serving the homeless, providing practical needs to vulnerable individuals, and beautifying local parks and schools, among many other community service projects.
Trellis is a team of leaders and catalysts passionate about stimulating, encouraging, and supporting cities to facilitate collaboration that resolves their spiritual, relational and practical challenges.
Love Costa Mesa is a movement that is creating greater collaboration in the city of Costa Mesa. The movement is led by churches, connecting with businesses, educators, city leadership, and nonprofits to help resolve the city’s challenges through numerous initiatives.