Dear Neighbor,
In anticipation of another atmospheric river event in the San Francisco Bay Area, the National Weather Service has issued a
flood watch
and
high winds advisory
through Wednesday, March 15th. Please exercise caution during this time. Below is an update on the current storm along with some emergency information resources.
North Bay storm report:
Emergency shelter:
Warming locations are available in
Marin
and
Sonoma
Counties. Visit your county’s emergency page for the most up-to-date information.
Wind:
A high wind advisory in effect through Wednesday, with winds up to 50 mph in the valleys and up to 80 mph along the coast and on hills above 1000 ft.
Road access:
Plan ahead to ensure that you are able to get to your destination. Go to
Sonoma County Emergency Portal Map
or
Marin Emergency Portal Map
to see traffic conditions and road closures due to downed trees, flooding etc.
Power:
Intense rain and wind may cause power outages. Call 911 to report downed power lines. Follow
PG&E Outage Map
for ongoing updates on power restoration.
Localized flooding:
The Russian River’s levels are being monitored in Sonoma County, the river overflowed near Hopland in Mendocino County. Most local flooding has occurred on the coast and along Highway 12 in Santa Rosa.
Weather outlook:
More rain is expected Tuesday, with the possibility of a thunderstorm after 11am.
Rain and winds will continue through the morning of Wednesday, March 15th, with only light rain showers expected later this week.
Exercise caution:
Reduce speed and be cautious on flooded roads, especially when visibility is limited.
Secure outdoor objects and furniture that could be blown over by wind.
Make sure your emergency kit is up-to-date: have a flashlight, radio and spare batteries handy if the power goes out.
Protect homes and businesses in low-lying flood-prone areas by making sandbags. Marin County residents can pick up sandbags at
these locations
. Sonoma County residents can pick up sandbags at
these locations
.
Mariners / Houseboat occupants should secure vessels for severe wind and seas.
Sign up to receive emergency alerts from
SoCoAlert
if you’re in Sonoma County or
AlertMarin
if you’re in Marin County. You can also text your zip code to 888-777.
Visit
SoCoEmergency.org
or
Emergency.MarinCounty.org
for additional resources and more preparation tips.