SACRAMENTO
– The California Legislative Progressive Caucus re-elected Assemblymember Ash Kalra to serve as Chair. He is joined by Vice Chairs, Assemblymembers Wendy Carrillo and Alex Lee.
“I am honored to continue leading the California Legislative Progressive Caucus and help guide a strategic, thoughtful approach to advancing a compassionate, inclusive agenda for Californians,” said
Assemblymember Kalra
. “It is my privilege to extend a heartfelt welcome to our new members as we look forward to a productive legislative session.”
Assemblymember Kalra was first elected to the California Legislature in 2016 and is the Chair of the Assembly Committee on Labor & Employment.
The California Legislative Progressive Caucus Executive Officers also includes Assemblymembers Tina McKinnor as Secretary, Corey Jackson as Parliamentarian, Laura Friedman as Policy Committee Chair, and Liz Ortega as Program Committee Chair. Assemblymember Reginald Byron Jones-Sawyer, Sr. as immediate past Chair of the Caucus will serve as Chair Emeritus.
Guiding principles for the Caucus include fighting for economic justice and economic security for all, protecting and preserving civil rights and civil liberties, promoting secure and peaceful communities for all residents, and advancing environmental protection and climate change policies.
The Caucus has reached a record number of members – 29 – including:
Joaquin Arambula (D-Fresno)
Rebecca Bauer-Kahan (D-Orinda)
Steve Bennett (D-Ventura)
Marc Berman (D-Palo Alto)
Mia Bonta (D-Oakland)
Isaac Bryan (D-Los Angeles)
Wendy Carrillo (D-Los Angeles)
Damon Connolly (D-San Rafael)
Laura Friedman (D-Glendale)
Jesse Gabriel (D-San Fernando Valley)
Eduardo Garcia (D-Coachella)
Gregg Hart (D-Santa Barbara)
Matt Haney (D-San Francisco)
Corey Jackson (D-Moreno Valley)
Reginald Byron Jones-Sawyer, Sr. (D-South Los Angeles)
Ash Kalra (D-San José)
Alex Lee (D-San José)
Kevin McCarty (D-Sacramento)
Tina McKinnor (D-Inglewood)
Liz Ortega (D-San Leandro)
Speaker Anthony Rendon (D-Lakewood)
Eloise Gomez Reyes (D-San Bernardino)
Luz Rivas (D-San Fernando Valley)
Robert Rivas (D-Salinas)
Miguel Santiago (D-Los Angeles)
Phil Ting (D-San Francisco)
Chris Ward (D-San Diego)
Buffy Wicks (D-Oakland)
Rick Zbur (D-West Hollywood)
###
The California Legislative Progressive Caucus
represents and advocates for progressive values and policies for the benefit of California residents. The Caucus seeks to represent progressive values in policies developed, written, and adopted by the California legislature; support and advance progressive budgets with the understanding that budgets are ultimately moral documents that speak to the values we hold dear; support and defend policies put forth by progressive legislators; and work with other communities and stakeholders and legislative caucuses on efforts and issues of common interest.