Sacramento, CA
– As part of the California State Assembly’s annual celebration of Women’s History Month, Assemblymember Lisa Calderon recognized Ms. Grace Wang Caltabiano as the 56
th
Assembly District’s Woman of the Year. Ms. Grace Wang Caltabiano grew up in the San Gabriel Valley, attended school in Diamond Bar, and is the founder and CEO of Grace Anatomy Pilates.
As the proud daughter of parents who were one of the early immigrants to arrive in the San Gabriel Valley, she has worked bring cultural awareness throughout Southern California. As a Chinese American, Ms. Wang Caltabiano has made significant contributions to raise awareness for the AAPI community. Along with including education on eastern practices during her sessions, she has leaned into advocacy work and demonstrated consistent leadership for change.
“I am thrilled to announce Grace as Woman of the Year for the 56
th
Assembly District,” said
Assemblymember Calderon.
“She has dedicated her career to empowering people through movement. She has made significant strides not only as a successful businesswoman, but also in bringing awareness to issues in the AAPI community. She is a trusted leader and resource to those in the small business community.”
Ms. Wang Caltabiano was amongst seven other community leaders honored by Assemblymember Calderon at during the 56
th
Assembly District Distinguished Woman of the Year Recognition Dinner hosted in Whittier, CA. Every March, women from across the district are honored for their remarkable contributions to the community. You can read more about these amazing honorees by clicking
HERE
.
“I am happy to recognize women throughout my district who exemplify courage, strength, and vision. It is an immense privilege to provide these honorees with the distinction of these awards,” continued
Assemblymember Calderon
. “We look to each of them to uplift and support our neighbors, youth, and future leaders. Their work has enabled women everywhere to shatter glass ceilings. Although there is much work left to do, I know that with strong women like these in my district, we can get the job done."
###
Contact: Alberto Ruiz, Alberto.Ruiz@asm.ca.gov