SACRAMENTO—The Senate Governmental Organization Committee, on a 12-0 vote today approved a measure to provide housing and mental health services to the region’s homeless population at unused space at Patton State Hospital. AB 349, authored by Asssemblymember James C. Ramos (D-San Bernardino), will next be heard in the Senate Appropriations Committee.
Ramos observed that San Bernardino County saw a
26% in its homelessness rate
when the annual homeless count numbers were released in April.
In February, San Bernardino City Council followed Los Angeles and Long Beach in officially declaring
homelessness an emergency
in their city, and council members noted that the city had seen a 175% increase in homelessness over the past five years.
Ramos stated, “We need to look at this as an ‘us’ – not a ‘them’ issue. My bill, AB 349, allows for unused state surplus property at Patton to be leased to other entities for a much-needed asset for our chronically homeless who account for more than 44% of those on our local streets. Chronically homeless means they have been without shelter for a year or more and have a disabling condition such as mental illness, a chronic health condition or a physical disability. By getting to the root of our chronically homeless numbers, we can take a huge step in reversing the increases we are seeing.”
He added, “That is a travesty that can be remedied by leveraging state and local resources to provide stable housing, services and treatment. It requires collaboration and will, but we must reverse the trends we’ve seen for almost a decade.”
San Bernardino Mayor Helen Tran who testified today and while the bill was in the Assembly was pleased with the Senate committee’s outcome. “I was pleased to join Assembly Member Ramos at today’s hearing to let the Senators know how important AB 349 is for San Bernardino and our region. More important though, was the unanimous vote by the Committee to move the bill forward.”
Fifth District Supervisor Joe Baca Jr. said, “We would like to thank Assemblymember Ramos for his leadership on addressing capacity and homelessness in our county. Lack of capacity is one of the main reasons the homelessness crisis is affecting our county so deeply. This bill will create great change in our community. Not only will those in our community experiencing homelessness be sheltered, but with this bill they will also have the chance to receive mental health support and other services.”
AB 349 would authorize the Department of General Services with the consent of the Department of State Hospitals to lease a building located at the Patton State Hospital to a nonprofit corporation or local government to provide housing and mental health services to unsheltered individuals.
The lawmaker outlined a model for the Patton transformation in a February
opinion
piece. He commented that reducing the homeless rate is possible through collaboration by local governments, the state and nonprofit organizations. He cited the award-winning Norwalk HFL Cedar Homes for Life Foundation in Los Angeles County which was established on the grounds of a former state hospital.
Coauthors include Assemblymembers Jasmeet Bains (D-Delano), Laurie Davies (R-Laguna Niguel), Diane Dixon (R-Newport Beach), Stephanie Nguyen (D-Elk Grove), Cottie Petrie-Norris (D-Irvine), Freddie Rodriguez (D-Pomona) and Lori D. Wilson (D-Suisun City). Senator Susan Rubio (D-Baldwin Park) who represents portions of San Bernardino County and a member of the Senate Governmental Organization Committee has requested that she be added as a coauthor.
###
Assemblymember James C. Ramos proudly represents the 45th Assembly district which includes the Cities of Fontana, Highland, Mentone, Redlands, Rialto and San Bernardino. He is the first and only California Native American serving in the state’s legislature. Ramos chairs the Assembly Committees on Rules.