SACRAMENTO, CA —
Assemblymember Rick Chavez Zbur (D-Hollywood) announced today that Governor Gavin Newsom signed into law AB 1484, which supports bargaining rights for temporary employees. This bill allows temporary employees of cities and counties to be included in the same bargaining unit as permanent employees who perform similar work.
"Temporary workers are a crucial and often overlooked workforce in California's economy," said Assemblymember Rick Chavez Zbur. "Although they are classified as temporary, they are often rehired by the same agency year after year, suggesting that the need for the work they perform is not temporary. By including temporary employees alongside their permanent colleagues, this bill helps to give these employees a voice to bargain for fair wages and good benefits alongside their permanent counterparts."
In recent years, the proportionate number of temporary employees to permanent employees has significantly increased as cities and counties rely on these workers to address long-term staffing needs instead of filling vacancies or creating permanent positions. The increasing reliance on temporary workers creates an overlooked class of workers who often do not receive retirement, health insurance, disability, job security, or union benefits. These workers are also likely to earn less per hour despite performing the same jobs as permanent employees. Temporary employees are disproportionately women and people of color without college degrees, exacerbating the inequity of this two-class employment system. AB 1484 helps to ensure that temporary employees are better able to make their voices heard at the bargaining table.
Assemblymember Zbur would like to give special thanks to sponsors SEIU California, the California Labor Federation, and AFSCME California.
"The Governor has taken a critical first step in rebuilding public service as a bridge to the middle class," said
Crystal Irving, President of SEIU Local 221 and Executive Board Member of SEIU California.
"Too many public employers have turned to the ‘temporary' work model to cut costs and take workers' power. The word ‘temporary' is misleading, as these ‘temporary workers' have been performing critical roles in our communities for years, working side by side with permanent workers and doing the same work but without the same pay, benefits, or security as their colleagues. This is deeply unfair and discriminatory. An overwhelming number of temporary workers are women and people of color. As a result of this bill, these workers will have a greater ability to advocate for better conditions."
"Temporary workers in the public sector provide essential services we all rely on every day. Yet, they are denied the wages, benefits, and job security of their co-workers," said
Lorena Gonzalez, leader of the California Labor Federation.
"Today, the Governor signed AB 1484, giving parity to temporary workers to bargain alongside their coworkers, helping create opportunities for them to move into permanent positions."
"There is a place for the use of temporary workers, but local governments in California are currently exploiting this class of employees," said
AFSCME Local 829 President, Ryan Shannon.
"AB 1484 will help correct this imbalance, and this law would give temporary workers more agency to advocate for their own basic labor rights, as well to push for a path to permanency in public employment helping to rectify challenges local governments are facing in retention and recruitment of the public sector workforce."
AB 1484 will take effect on January 1, 2024. The legislature reconvenes on January 3, 2024.
Assemblymember Rick Chavez Zbur serves as the Democratic Caucus Chair for the California State Assembly and represents the 51st Assembly District, including Hollywood, West Hollywood, Beverly Hills, Westwood, Santa Monica, and portions of Los Angeles.
CONTACT:
Vienna Montague, (916) 319-2051, Vienna.Montague@asm.ca.gov