SACRAMENTO—The California State Commanders Veterans Council today awarded the 2022 Pete Conaty Legislator of the Year Award to Assemblymember James C. Ramos (D-San Bernardino), former chairperson of the Assembly Committee on Military and Veterans Affairs.
The plaque states the recognition was given for his “tenacity and steadfast dedication to the veterans of California and your work to help secure funding for the repair of the Vietnam Veterans Memorial in Capitol Park.”
Ramos states, “I am privileged to receive this recognition from the men and women who serve our country, especially as I had great admiration for Mr. Conaty, a good friend renowned for his dedication to veterans’ causes and legislative acumen.”
The lawmaker also introduced legislation last year and this year to exempt military pensions and that of their spouses from state income taxes. This year’s measure, AB 46, is now in the state Senate. The tax exemption proposal has been introduced several times but never made it out of its house of origin. AB 46 has broken that record and recently left the Assembly on a bipartisan 77-0 vote. “We need to make California more veteran friendly and acknowledge the many sacrifices veterans and their families have made in service to our country.”
Ramos has also worked on veterans and mental health issues as a San Bernardino County supervisor and assemblymember. In last year’s budget he worked to secure $100 million over two years to fund the Veterans Housing and Homelessness Prevention Program.
Jeffry Breiten, Third Vice-President of the California Council of Chapters Affiliated Military Officers said, “Assemblymember Ramos has a proven track record in supporting our nation’s veterans.  Ramos was instrumental in recent legislation to erect monuments on the capitol grounds to recognize our veterans and he continues to fight to preserve the benefits our state veterans have earned.”
The legislative award is named for the late Pete Conaty. Conaty, a longtime lobbyist represented veterans organizations, museums, business and labor groups at the state and federal level. He worked tirelessly as a veterans’ advocate and completed a distinguished 21-year military career retiring as a Lt. Colonel in 1986. Conaty’s numerous awards included induction into the Fort Benning, GA Officer Candidate School Hall of Fame, a Purple Heart for wounds received during the first of two tours of duty in Vietnam, three Bronze Stars, a Meritorious Service Medal and an Army Commendation Medal. Conaty passed in July 31, 2022 after a short battle with pancreatic cancer.
###
Assemblymember James C. Ramos proudly represents the 45th Assembly district which includes the Cities of Fontana, Highland, Mentone, Redlands, Rialto and San Bernardino. He is the first and only California Native American serving in the state’s legislature. Ramos chairs the Assembly Committees on Rules.