TUSTIN – Assemblywoman Cottie Petrie-Norris (D-Irvine), Orange County United Way and local partners delivered over 400 school supply kits to W.R. Nelson Elementary School in Tustin. Teachers will distribute the items to nearly the entire student body at the beginning of the school year.
The Tustin school supply drive was launched by Assemblywoman Petrie-Norris, Orange County United Way, and the Tustin Community Foundation to fulfill the goal of ensuring elementary school children have essential supplies for class. Numerous individuals and community-based organizations generously donated the backpacks and other items including scissors, writing utensils and notebooks. The increasing costs of school supplies can be a barrier for many Tustin families in need as they struggle with other expenses.
“I am so incredibly grateful to all of the individuals and organizations that came together during this initiative to donate school supplies to help our elementary students get a head start this school year,” said Assemblywoman Cottie Petrie-Norris. “The drive truly was a grassroots achievement emblematic of Tustin’s desire to create positive change by addressing the most pressing needs for its most vulnerable residents.”
“Efforts like this can make all the difference in helping students thrive,” said Susan B. Parks, President and CEO, Orange County United Way. “We’re proud to partner with Assemblywoman Cottie Petrie-Norris to leverage our network and capabilities to make these students’ school year a resounding success.”
“On behalf of our Board of Trustees and our entire district, we are extremely appreciative of this generous and highly collaborative effort to support our students and our schools,” said Mark Johnson, Superintendent, Tustin Unified School District. “We want to thank Orange County United Way, each of the service organizations that contributed, and a special thank you to Assemblywoman Cottie Petrie-Norris for spearheading this project. I know our students are going to be thrilled when the get to school!”
Tustin school supply drive partners included: Orange County United Way, Tustin Community Foundation, Tustin Chamber of Commerce, Exchange Club of Tustin, Santa Ana Elks Lodge, Rotary Club of Tustin-Santa Ana, Arvida Book Co., Sabil USA, Tustin Unified School District, and individual donors.
The Tustin Unified School District serves over 24,000 students at 18 elementary schools, a K-8 school, 5 middle schools, and 4 high schools. W. R. Nelson Elementary School provides rigorous and engaging learning experiences for more than 500, preschool through fifth grade, 21st century learners. They are a Title I school committed to implementing best teaching practices to meet the needs of their diverse students.
Additional photographs from the event, courtesy of the Orange County United Way, can be found
here
.