SACRAMENTO, CA
– Today, Assemblymember Damon Connolly’s (D-San Rafael) successfully passed his first two bills out of the State Legislature -
Assembly Bill (AB) 319
and
Assembly Bill (AB) 1109
. These bills will now head to Governor Gavin Newsom’s desk for his consideration to be officially signed into law. If approved by the Governor, AB 319 will create protections for mobile home residents by strengthening conflict-of-interest practices for mobile home inspectors. AB 1109 addresses the tragic issue of teen-suicide by restricting the sale of sodium nitrite to minors, who have increasingly been purchasing this dangerous chemical online and using it to take their own lives.
“As a local public servant in the North Bay, it was always my priority to create better protections and safer communities for our seniors and young people,” said Assemblymember Connolly. “In the State Assembly, I am proud that my first two bills passed to the Governor are AB 319 and AB 1109. AB 319 is critical to protecting the rights of mobile home residents, many of whom are seniors living on fixed incomes, by ensuring property inspectors are required to abide by strict conflict-of-interest practices. AB 1109 takes a proactive step in protecting the health and safety of our youth by restricting the sale of sodium nitrite to minors – a deadly chemical that has been increasingly used by young people to tragically take their own lives. These bills exemplify our dedication to a stronger, healthier, and safer California. I encourage the Governor to sign these important bills into law.”
Based on recommendations from the California State Auditor, AB 319 directs the Department of Housing and Community Development (HCD) to review mobile home park inspector’s statements of economic interests, including examining disclosures of all interests in real property to ensure inspectors are not supervising mobile home parks that they have a financial stake in. AB 319 also requires HCD to establish policies to document complaints against inspectors and detail the steps taken to address those complaints. Lastly, AB 319 extends the Mobilehome Parks Act to allow HCD to continue to conduct vital health and safety inspections.
After learning about the recent increase in sodium-nitrite related suicides, Assemblymember Connolly introduced AB 1109, which restricts the sale of sodium nitrite to minors. The bill also specifies that retailers and online marketplaces must implement an effective age verification system that adequately checks the purchaser's age through common-sense screening practices.
AB 319 and AB 1109 now await a decision from the Governor.
###
Assemblymember Connolly represents the entirety of Marin County and Southern Sonoma County