Assemblymember Rick Chavez Zbur (D-Hollywood) today announced his disappointment in the ongoing attacks on the LGBTQ+ community and legislation designed to support LGBTQ+ and all students. Representatives of the Chino Valley Unified School District and others announced plans to oppose legislation to protect students and marginalized youth today at the Capitol.
Assemblymember Zbur is the proud author of AB 5, the Safe & Supportive Schools Act, which will provide teachers and school staff with professional development opportunities to help them foster inclusive classroom environments for LGBTQ+ and all students.
"California parents and teachers agree: every student deserves to feel safe, supported, and welcome at school," emphasized Assemblymember Zbur. "That's why AB 5 has earned bipartisan support from Californians across the state, including the California Teachers Association and the California Federation of Teachers. It's unfortunate that a small group of anti-LGBTQ+ school board members would rather play political games outside the Capitol than welcome students back to school and help them thrive."
Despite much progress, LGBTQ+ students still experience harassment, violence, and lack of affirmation in school settings far too often. These experiences can harm LGBTQ+ students' school performance, success, self-esteem, and mental health. Lack of adequate school support results in high dropout rates, leading to high rates of poverty, homelessness and engagement with the criminal justice system for LGBTQ+ people. By fostering safe and inclusive school environments, the Safe and Supportive Schools Act will contribute to the reduction of dropout rates, elevate academic achievement, and create a pathway for a brighter future for all students.
Assemblymember Rick Chavez Zbur serves as the Democratic Caucus Chair for the California State Assembly and represents the 51st Assembly District, including Hollywood, West Hollywood, Beverly Hills, Westwood, Santa Monica, and portions of Los Angeles
CONTACT:
Vienna Montague, (916) 319-2051, Vienna.Montague@asm.ca.gov