SACRAMENTO, CA
– Assemblymember Damon Connolly (D-San Rafael) has passed seven of his authored Assembly Bills successfully through the State Legislature. These bills are now being considered by the governor, who has until the 14th of October to sign, approve, or veto each measure.
“I came to Sacramento to tackle the issues that are most important to our communities, and I am proud to have accomplished so much on behalf of the people of the North Bay,” said Assemblymember Connolly. “From improving public safety to protecting our children against harmful toxins, this bill package will be hugely beneficial to our community and is an exciting cap to my first year in the California State Assembly.”
Restricting Sale and Use of Body Armor by Criminals:
Assembly Bill (AB) 92
extends the limitations on body armor purchase to include any individual that has committed a violent felony or is otherwise barred by California law from owning a firearm. This bill was created with the intention of limiting body armor use in mass shootings, as a potential perpetrator may use this tool to prolong their violent rampage.
Protection for Mobile Home Park Residents:
Assembly Bill (AB) 319
strengthens the conflict of interest policies for mobile home park inspectors by annually reviewing mobile home inspectors’ statements of economic interests.
Streamline of Reporting Requirements for Organic Farmers:
Assembly Bill (AB) 404
requires that the California Department of Food and Agriculture evaluate the reporting requirements placed on organic farmers and submit recommended efficiencies to limit redundancy.
Health Care Coverage for Metabolic Disorders:
Assembly Bill (AB) 620
requires that health plans cover Inflammatory Bowel Disease as well as the testing and treatment of digestive and inherited metabolic disorders.
Explicit Enforcement of Flavored Tobacco Ban:
Assembly Bill (AB) 935
explicitly authorizes the enforcement of the ban on flavored tobacco, restricting their retail availability and keeping them out of the hands of teenagers.
Teen Suicide Prevention:
Assembly Bill (AB) 1109
prohibits online retailers from selling sodium nitrite to minors, which is a dangerous material often used in teen suicide. This bill also places quantity restrictions on sodium nitrite purchase for adults.
Limit on Fees for Residential and Commercial Solar Systems:
Assembly Bill (AB) 1132
, which Connolly joint authored with Assemblymember Laura Friedman (D-Burbank), extends the provisions limiting permit fees for residential and commercial solar energy systems. These provisions are currently set to be repealed on January 1, 2025, but AB 1132 extends the repeal of these provisions to January 1, 2034.
After their passage through the California State Legislature, the governor must sign or veto each of these bills by October 14, 2023.
###
Assemblymember Connolly represents the entirety of Marin County and Southern Sonoma County