IRVINE
—
Assemblywoman Cottie Petrie-Norris (D-Irvine) announced that she has secured $3.5 million
in the 2023-24 California State Budget for district priorities in the cities of Costa Mesa, Irvine and Tustin.
“Although the State of California is currently facing a difficult financial year, prioritizing my constituents’ and community partners’ needs continues to be my focus,” said Assemblywoman Cottie Petrie-Norris. “I am proud to have secured these funds for projects that will improve public safety, expand access to mental health services, and ensure area residents and employees have access to quality parks and recreation opportunities.”
City of Irvine Real Time Crime Center - $2,000,000
The funds would go towards establishing a Real Time Crime Center (RTCC) that embeds crime analysts in the Irvine Police Department communications and dispatch center so that officers in the field are provided real-time information in order to effectively capitalize on the expanding range of technologies that increase apprehension of offenders, prevent crime, and improve officer safety. The funds would go towards equipping the RTCC with new software, hardware, and the expansion of the existing dispatch center to include the RTCC analysts’ consoles.
City of Costa Mesa Behavioral Health Services Expansion & Mobile Mental Health Response Program - $750,000
The project will expand access to behavioral and mental health services for Costa Mesa by implementing a citywide mobile mental health response program to meet people where they are to provide case management, resources and transport to local behavioral health facilities for outpatient or crisis intervention services.
City of Tustin Legacy Park Improvements Project - $750,000
Tustin Legacy Park is a linear park system within the Tustin Legacy Specific Plan area. When complete, the park will traverse two miles and connect the Tustin Metrolink station with the jobs and housing throughout Tustin Legacy. The first phase of the park has seen extensive use resulting in degradation of park facilities. The funds will go towards implementing improvements to refurbish park amenities and improve park user experience for area residents and employees.