SACRAMENTO, CA
–Today, Assemblymember Marc Berman, Senator Josh Becker, and San Mateo County Supervisor Ray Mueller issued the following statement in response to the closure of State Route 92 in Half Moon Bay due to a storm related sinkhole:
“Our full attention is on those impacted by the closure of Highway 92. I understand the impact of the closure on the residents that rely on the highway as a critical connection to the Peninsula. We have been in frequent communication with Caltrans, the California Highway Patrol, the affected cities, and the County. We will not let up until the road is repaired,”
said Assemblymember Marc Berman.
“Caltrans has assured me that they are working around the clock to reopen the road and inspect other roadways in the area for similar dangers. I will do everything in my power to ensure that this remains a top Caltrans priority.”
“The enormous sinkhole that’s opened up on Highway 92 is the latest catastrophe stemming from the unprecedented winter storms that have taken their toll on everyone and seemingly everything in our region.  Emergency crews are working around the clock to get the highway re-opened, but given how severe the damage is, it’s going to take some time.  My office is working with Caltrans, CHP, the City of Half Moon Bay and the County of San Mateo to see if it’s possible to safely re-open Highway 92 before the sinkhole is completely repaired,”
said State Senator Josh Becker.
“My office has been working with the County Executive’s Office and County Health and I have been informed contingency planning has been implemented to ensure emergency medical services and transport is operational to Coastside residents while the 92 is closed. I am grateful to Senator Becker and Assemblymember Berman and their offices for their assistance in working with CalTrans during this event,”
said San Mateo County Supervisor Ray Mueller
.
Earlier today the California Congressional Delegation and staff met with the leadership of CalOES and FEMA where both Congresswoman Anna Eshoo and Congressman Kevin Mullin underscored to the agency’s leadership the critical need to reopen State Route 92 in both directions as soon as possible. FEMA confirmed the agency is working on a fix.
San Mateo County residents can sign up for emergency alerts at
www.smcgov.org/ceo/smc-alert
. Access real-time Caltrans traffic information layered on a Google Map at
QuickMap (ca.gov)
. Check current highway conditions on your mobile phone at
Road Conditions (ca.gov)
. You can also call 1-800-427-7623 for current highway conditions.
Contact: Isabelle LaSalle 916-319-2023