Sacramento, CA
– Today, Assemblymember Bauer-Kahan, Chair of the Assembly Water, Parks and Wildlife Committee, joined the Governor, Assembly Speaker Rivas, Senate Pro-Tem Toni Atkins, Senate Budget Chair Nancy Skinner, and a cohort of legislative leaders for the signature of the Governor’s package of legislation that streamlines needed projects while protecting the environment
.
“The Governor’s leadership and the work of my Legislative colleagues have ensured a deal that implements shared priorities of protecting the environment and building critically needed projects. Most importantly, it does so without sacrificing the wellbeing of low income and frontline communities.” said
Assemblymember Bauer-Kahan (D-Orinda)
“We need transmission. We need to leverage the billions available in the CHIPS act. We also need our vulnerable communities to benefit equally from these projects. This package requires all mitigation to occur IN the communities impacted by projects, and ensures that CEQA streamlining happens without sacrificing critical environmental protection.”
The infrastructure package was proposed by Governor Newsom and went through hearings and in the Legislature. The package includes California Environmental Act (CEQA) streamlining for clean energy projects, water conveyance and storage, energy transmission, and critical infrastructure needs. In the face of climate change and rapidly growing energy and water needs, California needs to ensure critical projects are built. The Senate and Assembly environmental committees worked with the administration to ensure that package did not allow unchecked development, including exempting the Delta tunnel project and Ocean Desalination from any streamlining provisions. The legislation also includes safeguards for endangered species and frontline communities.
“I’m thrilled to see that all opposition to the package has been removed with the final deal,” said
Assemblymember Bauer-Kahan (D-Orinda).
“This effort truly strikes the balance between bold environmental goals and ambitious projects. Together, we can do big things.”
###