Sacramento, CA
– Upon the conclusion of the 2023 legislative session, Assemblymember Rebecca Bauer Kahan (D-Orinda) has successfully achieved passage of 13 bills through the California Legislature.
As the Chair of the Select Committee on Reproductive Health, Assemblymember Bauer-Kahan has championed abortion rights with
AB 254 and AB
352
. AB 352 is a first in the nation measure crafted with Planned Parenthood Affiliates of California to protect abortion patients that come to California for care. The bill prevents  revealing abortion care across state lines via digital medical charts.
AB 254
protects those who use period tracking apps by prohibiting the data collected from being sold. In the wrong hands, digital health information revealing abortion care put patients at risk, and these measures protect patients and providers from the states that criminalize their health needs.
“California has no obligation to be complicit in the criminalization of the right to abortion”
said Assemblymember Bauer-Kahan.
“AB 352 will ensure that anyone coming to California for abortion care will not be put at risk.”
As the Chair of the Water Parks and Wildlife Committee and a lifelong environmental advocate, Assemblymember Bauer-Kahan continues to champion environmental protections.
AB 363
, the save the bees bill, bans pesticides that kill bees, monarchs, and other pollinators for most non-agricultural uses. As an avid camper, Assemblymember Bauer-Kahan also prioritized outdoors access with
AB 618
and
AB 1150
, which improve access to California parks and streamline the state’s campsite reservation system.
Assemblymember Bauer-Kahan championed worker protections this year with
AB 521
and
AB 1076.
AB 521 came from local women in the trades in District 16, and asks OSHA to require a women’s restroom on construction sites. This will improve working conditions for women working on the sites. AB 1076 ends the harmful and anticompetitive practice of including illegal noncompete clauses in employment contracts. Both bills will improve job protections for workers, especially those in the most vulnerable positions.
Assemblymember Bauer-Kahan continues to vigorously champion health legislation with
AB 1369,
which allows patients at the end of their life to see doctors virtually even if they are licensed in other states. This legislation was inspired by the Assemblymember’ s dear friend, and long time Lafayette resident, David Hall, who passed away last year.
In addition, Assemblymember Bauer-Kahan’s
AB 267, AB 301, AB 1643 and AB 1720.
have all passed the legislature. These bills will remove unnecessary toxic chemicals from tents, improve regulations on body armor, expand options for youth in the justice system, and protect patients who receive ultrasounds
.
“
I am so proud to dedicate this year to the issues that matter most to my district. Environmental protection, reproductive rights, and worker protections are critical to my diverse and thoughtful constituency,”
said Assemblymember Bauer-Kahan.
“I’m honored to carry this legislation forward, and urge the governor to sign these bills to make California safer and more inclusive for everyone.”
######