Assemblymember Alex Lee has secured $2 million from this fiscal year’s state budget to help Newark revitalize the Old Town neighborhood and develop the city’s first resource center.
“I’m proud to announce $2 million in state funding for Newark,” Assemblymember Lee said. “The funding will improve residents’ living environments and quality of life by advancing Newark’s vision of reinvigorating the commercial core of Old Town and connecting residents to critical services through the Newark Resource Center.”
For Old Town, the Assemblymember secured $1 million towards the Old Town Streetscape Improvement Project. It aims to catalyze private investment within Old Town by improving access, safety and connections for pedestrians, bicyclists and transit users along Thornton Avenue between Olive Street and Ash Street.
The project’s public outreach and design phase will begin in fall 2023, with construction anticipated to start in spring 2025. The project is estimated to be completed by summer 2026. Its work includes installing new bike lanes and crosswalks, widening sidewalks for outdoor dining, enhancing landscaping areas and creating urban plazas.
Another $1 million in state funding has also been secured by Assemblymember Lee for the Newark Resource Center Project. The project will renovate an existing facility that’s owned by the city, converting it into the Newark Resource Center.
The Newark Resource Center will serve as an entry point for social services in the city, referring residents to social service agencies and providing on-site assistance. It will also offer spaces for community meetings and events in Old Town. The project is currently in the design development phase and construction is planned to begin in spring 2024.
“I thank Assemblymember Alex Lee for his ongoing support to the Newark community,” Mayor Michael K. Hannon said. “The added financial contribution will allow us to begin our revitalization of our Old Town, and provide funding for our Resource Center Project which will provide informational access to our residents.”
Over the past two years, Assemblymember Lee has secured a total of $5.8 million of state funding for Newark, with funding in the 2022-2023 state budget to implement Quiet Zones and improve the city’s broadband infrastructure.