SACRAMENTO
- Assemblymember Josh Lowenthal (D -Long Beach) released the following statement regarding Governor Newsom’s January Budget Proposal for the 2023-2024 fiscal year, which the Governor announced earlier today:
“Governor Newsom unveiled his January $297 billion budget today – After two years of record-breaking revenues and investments, we are now faced with a $22.5 billion deficit and a budget proposal that still prioritizes the health and safety of all Californians with minimal disruptions. As always, this budget is emblematic of California’s values and we see those priorities reflected in this proposal.”
“I applaud Governor Newsom for his commitment to funding and access to quality K-12 education for our children and higher education for all Californians, his ongoing commitment to healthcare and safety net programs for our most vulnerable, and the $60 million investment in oil gas worker skill building; which impacts the people of the 69th assembly district greatly. However, I am deeply concerned at the prospect of any reductions to funding for housing, when the homelessness crisis is at an all-time high around the state. We cannot lose focus on this humanitarian crisis and allow the state to regress on its commitment to equitably increase housing and to housing our homeless. It’s clear we need to be doing more and not less at both the State and local level to address homelessness and funding is a key component to getting people off of the street, housed, and connected with the services they need. I look forward to working with the Governor and my colleagues on finding budgetary solutions for this crisis.”
“I thank Governor Newsom for his leadership and look forward to his May Revise proposal. Similarly, I look forward to working with my colleagues in the Legislature to help craft a budget that complements the Governor’s proposal and continues to address our State’s most pressing priorities and needs to better serve all Californians.”
Josh Lowenthal represents California’s 69th Assembly District, which comprises the communities of Carson, the Catalina Islands, Long Beach, Los Angeles and Signal Hill.