A bill to improve pedestrian, cyclist, and driver safety is making its way to the Senate Committee on Appropriations. AB 413, authored by Assemblymember Alex Lee, was voted 13-2 in the Senate Committee on Transportation earlier this month.
The proposed legislation aims to reduce collisions by keeping 20 feet of an intersection or crosswalk’s approach side clear of stopped vehicles. The measure, known as daylighting, makes it easier for everyone on the street to see oncoming traffic — a practice that’s been implemented across the United States to improve traffic safety.
“Daylighting zones at intersections will make our streets safer for drivers, cyclists and people on foot,” Lee said. “43 other states have adopted daylighting measures because it is a common sense way to prevent traffic collisions. By increasing traffic visibility for everyone, AB 413 will help address California’s pedestrian fatality rate, which is almost 25% higher than the national average.”
In 2022, California recorded a pedestrian fatality rate of 1.29 for every 1,000 individuals, compared to the national rate of 1.04, according to the
Governors Highway Safety Association
. Across the U.S., the annual number of pedestrian fatalities have been rising steadily. That number has increased by nearly 80 percent from 2009 to 2021, according to
the Insurance Institute for Highway Safety
.
Further,
the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration
reports that 26% of cyclist fatalities occurred at intersections in 2020.
California cities like Los Angeles, Alameda and San Francisco have already started adopting daylighting on their streets. Beyond California, states such as New Jersey, New York and Oregon have also put in place daylighting measures.
AB 413 is sponsored by the transportation advocacy organizations
Streets for All
and
CalBike
.
Once new traffic safety laws are signed by Governor Gavin Newsom, the California Highway Patrol compiles a list of the changes for the public. The California Department of Motor Vehicles also updates the Driver’s Handbook to reflect the changes. Further, the American Automobile Association will publish a list to inform the public.