SONOMA, CA
- Yesterday morning, Assemblymember Damon Connolly (D-San Rafael) hosted a press conference in Richmond where he called on CalTrans and regional transportation officials to fix the Richmond-San Rafael bridge and alleviate the traffic congestion that is stifling communities on both sides of the bridge. He was joined by Richmond City Councilmember Cesar Zepeda, Former Richmond City Councilmember Demnius Johnson, Richmond NAACP President Willie Robinson, Coronado Neighborhood Council President Joe Fisher, Santa Fe Neighborhood Councilmember Vern Whitmore, and Bay Area Council Chief Operating Officer John Grubb.
“Regional Measure 3 - approved by the voters in 2018 - promised to improve the approach to the Richmond-San Rafael Bridge and alleviate the traffic congestion, and specifically dedicated $210 million to do so” said Assemblymember Connolly. “We need those funds to remedy this situation which is hurting our communities. I urge regional transportation officials to dedicate Regional Measure 3 funds to this solution and urge everyone to join our efforts and sign our petition at CommonSenseTransportation.com.”
“I’m here today to speak for the workers and families who are sitting every day in the Richmond Bridge traffic as the result of poor planning,” said Richmond NAACP President Willie Robinson yesterday at the press conference. 63% of these drivers are people of color and 60% of them are also below the bay area median household income. By keeping the third lane of the upper deck closed to cars, we are forcing our community’s most vulnerable workers to sit through an extended commute. At the same time, we are polluting the air of the frontline communities living near the bridge approach with black carbon and nitrogen dioxide. Adding a movable barrier to the upper deck would better manage traffic—with three lanes during peak commute and a continuously operating bike lane and Bay Trail connection.”
According to research by PSE Health Energy (PSE) and air monitoring stations, fine particulate matter (PM2.5), nitrogen dioxide (NO2), ozone (O3), and black carbon (BC) that cause respiratory, cardiovascular, and neurological diseases, especially in children, the elderly, and vulnerable populations spike in Richmond during the morning commute near Interstate 580. The I-580 freeway area during the morning commute is the largest and most concentrated source of these harmful emissions. Childcare centers, hospitals, senior centers, schools and of course homes in Richmond are all downwind of these emissions.
###
Assemblymember Connolly represents the entirety of Marin County and Southern Sonoma County