SACRAMENTO, CA —
Assemblymember Rick Chavez Zbur (D-West Hollywood/Santa Monica) announced today that his California Offshore Wind & Jobs Act achieved a significant milestone as it successfully passed out of the Assembly. This landmark legislation represents a major step towards a cleaner and more sustainable future for California by promoting clean energy, reducing dependence on dirty fossil fuels, and creating new job opportunities while protecting the state's cultural and natural resources.
"Today's passage of the California Offshore Wind & Jobs Act in the Assembly is an incredible achievement in our efforts to transition towards a cleaner, more sustainable future and fight climate change," Assemblymember Zbur stated. "This legislation will not only help us reduce our reliance on dirty fossil fuels but also position California as a national leader in clean energy innovation and job creation. Meeting our climate goals requires bold action, and there is no time to waste as rising sea levels, hotter temperatures and more severe storms demonstrate the need for change to protect our planet and our way of life. I cannot thank our sponsor, Environment California, and our supporters enough for help making this possible."
The California Offshore Wind & Jobs Act is designed to provide critical infrastructure and regulatory frameworks to support the development of offshore wind projects along the state's coastline. The state will need to act quickly yet carefully to build the necessary infrastructure, such as new and expanded port facilities, which require billions of dollars in investment. The Act encourages thorough and timely planning by the state to stimulate the growth of a robust offshore wind industry, create thousands of jobs, and ensure strong environmental protections. It aims to unlock the potential for generating large amounts of clean electricity while significantly reducing greenhouse gas emissions and combating climate change.
"AB 3 will move California's offshore wind development along in a big way, helping meet our climate goals by producing huge amounts of clean, renewable energy. This bill puts key pieces in place for California to go big on offshore wind while significantly reducing the air and climate pollution that threatens our environment and our health every day," said Steven King, Clean Energy Advocate, Environment California.
The development, construction, operation, and maintenance of offshore wind projects will require a skilled workforce, offering high-quality jobs with competitive wages and benefits. This legislation aligns perfectly with Assemblymember Zbur's commitment to prioritizing sustainable practices and the well-being of California's clean energy economy.
In 2022, lawmakers passed Senate Bill 1020, which puts the state on the path of achieving 90 percent renewable energy and zero-carbon electricity by the end of 2035 and 95 percent by the end of 2040, with the ultimate goal of 100 percent renewable energy by 2045. The California Offshore Wind & Jobs Act is crucial in helping the state meet these goals.
Assemblymember Rick Chavez Zbur represents the 51st Assembly District, which includes the cities of Hollywood, West Hollywood, Beverly Hills, Westwood, Santa Monica and portions of Los Angeles.
CONTACT:
Vienna Montague, (916) 319-2051,
Vienna.Montague@asm.ca.gov