SAN MATEO
– Today, Assembly Bill 575, a bill to make three commonsense improvements to California’s Paid Family Leave (PFL) law, was approved by the Assembly Committee on Insurance.
Assembly Bill 575 calls for several important changes to existing requirements including removing the provision preventing more than one caregiver from receiving Paid Family Leave to care for the same family member at the same time; make PFL available for child bonding when a guardian newly assumes responsibility for a child
in loco parentis;
remove the provision of PFL that allows employers to require employees to use two weeks of accrued vacation before they can receive PFL benefits.
“My office hears regularly from families encountering many unnecessary challenges with Paid Family Leave, whether that be the birth of a new child, adoption or fostering of children or caring for ill family members,” said Papan. “Removing onerous and outdated barriers to enable families to bond with children or care for ailing family members is simply the right thing to do.”
Under current law, those seeking PFL benefits to provide care must certify that no other family member could provide care at the same time in order to qualify for PFL benefits, preventing, for example, both parents from caring for a sick child. Similarly, under current law, California’s PFL provides benefits to bond with a newly adopted or foster child, in recognition that transitioning guardians and homes can be a stressful experience for a child and a time that a child needs support from a loving adult. However, care providers of children who transition guardians without the formal foster or adoption process such as when a parent is hospitalized are ineligible for benefits. Lastly, AB 575 will remove the provision of PFL that allows employers to require employees to use 2 weeks of accrued vacation before they can receive PFL benefits.
“Whether it be the joy of the birth or adoption of a child or the grief of a seriously ill family member, families need and deserve support,” said Papan. “Family circumstances can change without warning and we must provide adequate options that match reality to help keep families healthy, safe and together.”