(Sacramento, CA) – Today, the Assembly Housing and Community Development Committee approved Assemblymember David Alvarez’s AB 1287 with unanimous bi-partisan support. Assembly Bill 1287 would create a new program in California to allow for the building of more units for middle-income earners. Specifically this legislation would incentivize builders to create housing by expanding the density bonus law.
“This bill is focused on housing that is affordable to middle income families,” said Assemblymember Alvarez. “AB1287 creates a new incentive for the development of Middle Income Housing. We need to build housing in our state for people at all income levels to address the housing crisis. This includes affordable housing for low income families and for the middle class.”
According to the Public Policy Institute of California, 47 percent of Californians cite housing costs as a significant financial strain on themselves and their families. Meanwhile, one in three say they are seriously considering leaving the state because of housing costs.
“I have heard from many families about housing needs for the middle class,” said Assemblymember Alvarez. “The statistics speak for themselves when 40% of middle-income renters spend more than 30% of their income on housing, while 10% are severely cost-burdened, meaning that more than half of their monthly income is spent on housing” *
AB 1287 creates a new incentive that can only be used when a project maximizes the production of Very-Low, Low, or Moderate Income units, as allowed by current Density Bonus Law. The vast majority of the housing being developed under the program, is for low to very-low income earners, because it requires deed-restrictions on the fewest number of units. The density bonus law has been successful in creating new housing across our state, AB1287 would help increase these numbers and create a new avenue for middle income housing.
To provide feedback on AB 1287 or to subscribe to legislative updates, please submit this online form and select AB 1287 in the issue dropdown box.
AB 1287 is supported by Circulate San Diego, SPUR, and the Bay Area Council.
###
* Terner Center for Housing Innovation, University of California, Berkeley, April 2022, “The Landscape of Middle-Income Housing Affordability in California”
The 80th Assembly District includes the communities of Barrio Logan, Logan Heights, Sherman Heights, Lincoln Acres, Bonita, Otay Mesa and San Ysidro, along with the cities of Chula Vista, National City and Imperial Beach.