Millbrae – Today, Assemblymember Diane Papan and State Senator Josh Becker presented a check for $300,000 for the City of Millbrae to upgrade Bayside Manor and Marina Vista parks. The grant is a state budget allocation championed and secured by Assemblymember Papan and State Senator Becker.
“Parks are essential to a good quality of life,” said Papan. “Activating these parks for better recreation, exercise, and play enhances Millbrae families’ lives, health, and helps build community.”
This priority project will increase park capacity with minimal maintenance. The planned improvements include resurfacing existing basketball courts and restriping them for both basketball and pickleball.
“State and local investments in community parks like the City of Millbrae’s Bayside Manor and Marina Vista Parks are crucial to creating clean, healthy and safe communities, and I am proud to join Assemblymember Papan in fighting to secure this necessary funding for these upgrades so that our community will continue to have active, reliable and enjoyable recreational public spaces,” said State Senator Josh Becker.
The City of Millbrae is upgrading Bayside Manor and Marina Vista Parks to better serve the needs of the adjoining neighborhoods and ensure the parks may be enjoyed for years to come. Both parks serve neighborhoods on the east side of Millbrae and abut the Millbrae Caltrain and BART Stations to the South.
“These parks are underutilized and in urgent need of renovation,” said Millbrae Mayor Ann Schneider. “New amenities and assets will create more inviting and useful spaces for our growing eastside community.”
Both park improvements were approved by City Council in 2022 with design to be completed in the fall. Construction is to start soon after, and completion is expected in early 2025. The process has included significant public engagement, needs assessment, community surveys, design charrettes, and construction documents. Construction costs are estimated to be approximately $1.5 million for a total of $3 million. The City will be providing 90% of the funding with State funding offset for the purchase of playground and sports court equipment.
###