(Sacramento) –
Assemblymember Mia Bonta (D-18) and
Root & Rebound
, a reentry legal resource organization, announced the signing of a new California bill,
AB 1148
, the
Stable Parents, Stable Children Act
. AB 1148 brings crucial reform to the child support system by extending the time for formerly incarcerated parents to resume child support payments from one month or less after exiting incarceration to 10 months.
Family Code §4007.5(b) requires that child support obligations resume on the first day of the month after an incarcerated person is released. If parents are unable to pay, they face punitive consequences such as suspension of their driver’s license and increased interest on the amount of child support owed.
“Over 75 percent of outstanding child support debt in California is owed by parents who could not afford to pay their original child support order,” explained Assemblymember Bonta. “The current system sets people up for failure because it fails to recognize barriers people re-entering into society face, particularly the difficulty in finding stable employment.”
Data shows it can take individuals more than
six months
to find stable employment post-incarceration, but in reality, according to women served by Root and Rebound, it can take formerly incarcerated people on average a year to find stable employment.
Research shows
the unemployment rate for formerly incarcerated people is nearly five times higher than the unemployment rate for the general United States population.
“Parents may resort to working in underground economies out of fear of being unable to provide for themselves. Having insufficient income only elongates reentry journeys because when support payments are not received as ordered, it results in harsh punishments for the formerly incarcerated parent and creates additional economic reentry barriers,” said Assemblymember Bonta.
"We applaud the state legislature for recognizing child support debt is a financial barrier that not only harms formerly incarcerated parents, but also families and children," said Claudia J. Gonzalez, Central Valley Policy Associate at Root & Rebound. "This bill will be life-changing for impacted people, especially those in rural communities of the Central Valley as it provides them the opportunity to stabilize themselves instead of immediately incurring debt. We applaud Governor Newsom for signing this bill into law and supporting impacted families."
In addition to the financial challenges, a parent’s inability to pay child support harms children and research shows parents who are in arrears on child support are less likely to have relationships with their children.
Even the federal government recognizes the harm to children from child support orders parents are unable to pay. The 2016 federal government child support requirements state that setting orders “beyond a noncustodial parent’s ability to pay can result in a number of deleterious effects, including unmanageable debt, reduced low-wage employment, increased underground activities, crime, incarceration, recidivism, and reduced contact with their children.”
“This bill truly is a mechanism for formerly incarcerated parents to obtain some financial stability while supporting family reunification and providing for their families,” concluded Assemblymember Bonta upon learning her bill had been signed into law.
AB 1148 goes into effect January 1, 2024.
#                             #                             #                             #                             #
AB 1148 is sponsored by
Root & Rebound. Root and Rebound is a national reentry organization with offices throughout California and South Carolina. They work to reverse the devastating effects of mass incarceration and over-criminalization and transform the experience of reentry by providing critical legal resources, education, and ongoing support to the individuals, families, and communities affected. To learn more about Root & Rebound and to support their effort, please visit https://www.rootandrebound.org/.