(
SACRAMENTO, CA) –
Eight bills authored by Assemblymember Ward passed the Assembly and are now headed to the Senate for consideration. The assortment of legislation covers a wide range of issues, including affordable housing, education, climate, technology, and public safety. Each of the bills will now be referred to Senate committees based on their policy areas for a vote.
“I’m thrilled to see these bills move forward in the legislative process,”
said Assemblymember Ward (D-San Diego). “
Our state has many ongoing challenges, but I am humbled to work on legislation to address them. I will continue to push for solutions to improve the lives of Californians, protect the environment and build more affordable housing.”
Below is a summary of each bill and a link to more information:
ENVIRONMENT / CLEAN ENERGY
AB 30 (Atmospheric Rivers):
Broadens the atmospheric river program administered through the Department of Water Resources to link reservoir and flood control operations with best practices in prediction modeling to optimize water management, increase storage, and reduce flood risk.
AB 2 (Solar Recycling Program):
Establishes a statewide solar panel   end-of-life program to recycle raw materials and other valuable components into new solar panels, reducing the environmental impact of solar power waste.
AB 1238 (Solar Panel Alternative Management Standards):
Requires the Department of Toxic Substances Control to develop alternate management standards for recycling solar panel waste to reduce regulatory and financial burdens without compromising environmental or worker safety.
HOUSING
AB 515 (California Department of Housing and Community Development Loans):
Allows refinancing or sales of the Department of Housing and Community Development (HCD) financed projects to deploy loan repayments into affordable housing opportunities without compromising the project’s long-term affordability requirements.
EDUCATION
AB 599 (School Substance Use Zero Tolerance Policies):
Allows teachers and administrators to take a public health approach to substance use addiction by adopting a plan for students who are found to simply possess a drug or paraphernalia on campus, while collaborating with local community-based organizations, educational agencies, and treatment providers.
AB 634 (Career Development and College Preparation Courses):
Requires the Board of Governors of the California Community Colleges to conduct career development and college preparation courses by positive attendance count or on a census date basis.
TECHNOLOGY
AB 302 (Automated Decision-Making Systems Inventory Act):
Ensures government transparency around state use of automated decision-making systems that may be using artificial intelligence or algorithms to facilitate decisions on public benefits by requiring the Department of Technology to conduct a comprehensive inventory of the technology and be transparent with their findings.
TRANSPORTATION
AB 251 (Vehicle Weight Safety Study):
Directs the California Transportation Commission to study the relationship between vehicle weight and injuries to vulnerable road users, such as pedestrians and cyclists, as well as the costs and benefits of imposing a passenger vehicle weight fee.