Sacramento -
Since its passing in 1996, Proposition 209 has served as a barrier toward implementing potential programs to assist vulnerable communities who have intentionally been neglected and left behind for over 400 years. This unjust law has substantially limited the state's ability to address disparities in business contracting, education, housing, wealth, employment, and healthcare, which are deeply embedded in laws, policies, and institutions that perpetuate racial inequalities.
In response to the persistent issue of inequities and the recognition of Prop. 209 as an impediment, the California State Assembly approved ACA 7, a measure aimed at amending Prop 209. ACA 7 focuses on enabling evidence-based, culturally specific programs to reduce disparities among specific groups, including marginalized genders and sexual orientations.
The newly released Reparations report affirms that Proposition 209 is a substantial obstacle to remedying systemic racism in California. Authored by Assemblymember Dr. Corey Jackson, ACA 7 represents a commitment to confront and rectify the enduring disparities that have afflicted California for far too long. This bill is a bold step toward leveling the playing field and, most importantly, it seeks to dismantle the barriers that have denied marginalized communities the opportunity to have their unique needs recognized and addressed.
Assemblymember Dr. Corey Jackson states, "Yesterday, we took a significant step toward addressing systemic disparities. ACA 7 aims to create positive change and improve outcomes for those disproportionately affected by systemic racism and discrimination."
ACA-7 will allow California to directly combat these disparities by allowing the Governor to issue waivers to public entities that wish to use state funds for evidence-based or research-informed and culturally specific programs to increase life expectancy, improve educational outcomes, and lift specific ethnic groups and marginalized genders out of poverty.
ACA 7 now advances to the Senate. To view Assemblymember Dr. Corey Jackson’s closing floor comments go to
https://drive.google.com/file/d/17DAnVeKwsF49mw-gzdSl9nPP1r8bsbiu/view?usp=sharing