Francisca Arroyo Rosales of Seaside Honored by Addis
SACRAMENTO – Assemblymember Dawn Addis (D-Morro Bay) today announced that the California State Assembly is honoring Francisca Arroyo Rosales of Seaside as the 2023 "Woman of the Year" for Assembly District 30.
Ms. Arroyo Rosales is being honored for her record of civic engagement, including her work on disaster assistance for families who have been impacted by the 2023 storms, and in the Seaside community during the COVID pandemic.
"Francisca represents the best of what it means to be an engaged, selfless community member," Addis said. "As a VIDA Community Health Worker in Monterey County, Francisca was on the forefront of addressing the COVID crisis, connecting Spanish speakers and undocumented people with crucial testing, vaccination, food, and financial resources. Her tireless devotion to the health and safety of Monterey's most vulnerable residents is a model for us all. I am incredibly proud to name her my first Woman of the Year."
Ms. Arroyo Rosales will be honored today on the floor on the State Assembly along with women from other Assembly and Senate districts to recognize the historic achievements of women during Women's History Month.
Ms. Arroyo Rosales has become a staple in her Seaside community by participating in community events, volunteering her spare time to educate youth and parents, and focusing on drug prevention throughout the county.
During the COVID-19 pandemic, Ms. Arroyo Rosales became a Monterey County VIDA Community Health Worker, where she became equipped to deliver information about COVID-19 testing and vaccinations. In this capacity, she was also able to help residents with access to rental and utilities relief, among other resources.
A former elementary school teacher in Mexico City, Ms. Arroyo Rosales' passion can be seen through her previous work for the Monterey Peninsula Unified School District as a former volunteer for Seaside High School's "Gear Up" program where she focused her time on increasing opportunities for underserved youth. Her passion allowed her to become the former PTA president at Seaside Middle School where she increased parent involvement and advocated for safer communities for youth.
In her spare time, Ms. Arroyo Rosales sponsors youth facing alcohol and substance abuse and she remains civically engaged in local government, and volunteers her time and efforts by assisting local municipalities with outreach and engagement.
CONTACT:
Jim Evans, 916-319-2030