SANTA CLARITA
- Assemblywoman Schiavo announced today that she secured $405,000 for the Northeast Valley Health Corporation's (NEVHC), which she presented to CEO Kimberly Wyard and NEVHC staff members. They also had a comprehensive discussion about NEVHC's initiatives, policy priorities, and its vital role in the community.
The funding allocation is designated to support infrastructure enhancements at NEVHC's clinic sites located in the Santa Clarita Valley. This funding will empower NEVHC to invest in new equipment such as EKG machines, purchase 2,000 bilingual (Spanish/English) children's books to bolster the Reach Out and Read program, and undertake minor renovations that will amplify ADA compliance and improve accessibility for patients with disabilities.
“The work NEVHC does to provide access to affordable healthcare to our community is critical. I am grateful for their work and so proud we were able to deliver these needed funds for investments that help reduce weight times and increase access to healthcare in our community,” said Assemblywoman Schiavo.
NEVHC is a beacon of healthcare excellence, extending its services for nearly half a century to underserved communities who face barriers to affordable healthcare in the San Fernando and Santa Clarita Valleys. With 17 health centers and 12 Women, Infants, and Children (WIC) sites, NEVHC annually serves more than 81,000 patients at the health centers and nearly 39,000 at the WIC site.
Northeast Valley Health Corporation CEO Kimberly Wyard stated, "We are incredibly grateful to Assemblywoman Pilar Schiavo for her exceptional dedication to the health and well-being of our patient community. The $405,000 in state funding secured by Assemblywoman Schiavo reflects a profound commitment to supporting those in the Santa Clarita Valley who are most in need of healthcare services. As we commemorate 50 years of serving our community, Northeast Valley Health Corporation remains steadfast in our mission to provide accessible and compassionate care to all. Champions like Assemblywoman Schiavo play an indispensable role in driving forward this mission and ensuring our continued success. Her advocacy empowers us to reach further, touch more lives, and create a lasting impact. We extend our heartfelt appreciation to Assemblywoman Schiavo for her partnership and support, and we look forward to the positive outcomes we will achieve together."
###
Assemblywoman Pilar Schiavo was elected to the California State Assembly in November of 2022 to represent the 40th Assembly District, representing the Northwest San Fernando Valley and the Santa Clarita Valley. Upon her election, she was appointed as Assistant Majority Whip by the Speaker of the Assembly. Prior to her election, Assemblywoman Schiavo was a Nurse Advocate and Small Business Owner who worked in the labor movement for more than 20 years. Throughout her career, Assemblywoman Schiavo helped deliver healthcare, including reproductive healthcare, to more than one million people. In the Northwest San Fernando Valley, she co-founded an organization that helped secure housing for Veterans experiencing homelessness, has delivered more than 50,000 meals to people in need, and increased resources to help keep our communities safe. Assemblywoman Schiavo lives in Chatsworth with her daughter Sofia where they love to hike in the Santa Susana Mountains.