CHATSWORTH – Assemblywoman Pilar Schiavo announced today that she secured needed funding for an interim housing site in Chatsworth, one key way to help solve our homelessness crisis. Assemblywoman Schiavo secured $200,000 for the Devonshire Lodge Project Homekey Site. This funding was presented at the site last week, and is intended for needed fire and life safety improvements to move the site from interim to permanent housing.
"I’m happy to join Mayor Karen Bass to combine our efforts to bring real solutions to the homelessness crisis. By combining the efforts of the state and city, we have and will continue to secure the crucial funding necessary to make a tangible impact on the lives of those experiencing homelessness in our communities,” said Assemblywoman Schiavo. “With a shared commitment to this cause, we are dedicated to implementing innovative programs and fostering partnerships that include prioritizing the development of more permanent housing with supportive services, so people don’t fall back into homelessness once they are housed.”
Working to deliver real solutions to homelessness is work Assemblywoman Schiavo started prior to serving in the Assembly. Previously, Schiavo co-founded an organization that has delivered more than 50,000 meals to people in need, helped secure housing for veterans and seniors experiencing homelessness, and has increased resources to keep our communities safe.
Schiavo continued, “This is especially meaningful to me, having done this work for years before entering into the legislature. I am grateful to have been able to secure state funding so we can be in partnership to ensure my own community of Chatsworth is able to be part of the housing solution we need to transform lives and stabilize our communities.”
More on the Project Roomkey Site: The Devonshire Lodge is a former motel acquired through the State’s Homekey program for use as interim housing and conversion to permanent supportive housing. The site is located in Chatsworth and has 75 units. Assemblywoman Pilar Schiavo secured $200,000 for the City to fund safety improvements at the motel.
###
Assemblywoman Pilar Schiavo was elected to the California State Assembly in November of 2022 to represent the 40th Assembly District, representing the Northwest San Fernando Valley and the Santa Clarita Valley. She currently serves as Chair of the Military and Veterans Affairs Committee. Prior to her election, Assemblywoman Schiavo was a Nurse Advocate and Small Business Owner who worked in the labor movement for more than 20 years. Throughout her career, Assemblywoman Schiavo helped deliver healthcare, including reproductive healthcare, to more than one million people. In the Northwest San Fernando Valley, she co-founded an organization that helped secure housing for Veterans experiencing homelessness, has delivered more than 50,000 meals to people in need, and increased resources to help keep our communities safe. Assemblywoman Schiavo lives in Chatsworth with her daughter Sofia where they love to hike in the Santa Susana Mountains.