SACRAMENTO, Calif. — Assemblymember Tasha Boerner Horvath (D-Encinitas) has selected Carol Kim as the 2023 Woman of the Year for Assembly District 77.
Every year during Women’s History Month in March, state legislators select a woman in their district whose contributions to her community deserve to be celebrated and given this honor. Kim, along with 119 other awardees, was honored at today’s California Woman Making Herstory Awards Ceremony.
“My district has countless women contributing so much to our communities every day,” said Assemblymember Boerner Horvath. “I am excited to honor Carol because of her work to ensure an equitable future – from serving high-risk groups, LGBTQ+ communities, and communities of color, she is an advocate that works tirelessly for us all.”
Carol is a business manager for San Diego County Building & Construction Trades Council (SDCBCTC) and the CEO of the SDCBCTC Family Housing Corporation. Carol serves on the boards of the San Diego and Imperial Counties Labor Council, the San Diego Convention Center, and Run Women Run.
After graduating from UCLA in 1998, Carol began her career as a classroom teacher in an inner city school in Los Angeles. Her years as a teacher were followed by several more working in HIV prevention, where she served high-risk groups including active and recovering substance users, adolescents in the foster care and judicial systems, and underserved communities.
“Thank you to Assemblymember Tasha Boerner Horvath for being a great role model for women and girls in my district,” Kim said. “The reason I was honored today was because of all the amazing work the San Diego County Building & Construction Trades Council does.”
Following a move to San Diego, she carried her experience as a practitioner in the fields of education and public health to work as a Research Associate in the Health & Human Development program for an education research nonprofit, working with schools, school districts, and community colleges both in San Diego County and throughout the state of California. In 2013, she took a leap into politics, and has been an advocate for working families ever since.
After several years serving as the Political Director of SDBCTC and the Director of Community Engagement for the SDBCTC Family Housing Corporation (SDBTC FHC), running electoral campaigns, advocating for legislation, and organizing community coalitions, Carol is now the Business Manager of the SDBCTC and the CEO of the SDBTC Family Housing Corporation.
The Woman of the Year program has a proud 30-year history in the Legislature, dating back to its creation in 1987 by Assemblywoman Bev Hansen (R) and Assemblywoman Sally Tanner (D). Carol Kim and this year’s Women of Impact awardees will be honored at an event in the district on Saturday, March 25.
###
Assemblymember Tasha Boerner Horvath represents the 77th District, which encompasses Carlsbad, Encinitas, Solana Beach, Del Mar, and the coastal communities of La Jolla south to Downtown and Coronado. You can learn more about Assemblymember Boerner Horvath at
a77.asmdc.org
,
Facebook
,
Instagram
, or
Twitter
.