SACRAMENTO—Assemblymember James C. Ramos (D-San Bernardino), the state’s first and only California Native American elected to the legislature, today joined in applauding the Supreme Court 7-2
decision
upholding the 1978 Indian Child Welfare Act (ICWA), a first-ever reverse assimilation policy.
Ramos said, “California’s tribes today join other Native Americans across the United States in celebrating the reaffirmation of our sovereign right to raise our children in tribal communities where they can maintain their tribal identity, culture and traditions.” He noted that the Court’s majority opinion was released almost four years to the day – June 18, 2019 – since
Gov. Gavin Newsom’s apology
to California’s Indians for the state’s historical wrongdoings.
“No one can underestimate the trauma of genocide, the forced separation of children from their parents, the creation of boarding schools and other crimes aimed at eliminating or assimilating Native Americans in California and the nation. We have survived the attacks on our existence and our culture, and we will continue to resist attempts to deny our rightful place on this land as sovereign people.”
ICWA was enacted after studies revealed about a third of Native children were removed from their parents with upward of 85 percent placement in non-Native homes.
Ramos added, “I am proud and appreciative that California Attorney General Rob Bonta led a bipartisan coalition of 24 attorneys general in filing an
amicus brief
in the case arguing for upholding ICWA.”
Assembly Speaker Anthony Rendon
(D-Lakewood) observed, “The United States and California have a long, despicable history when it comes to the treatment of Native Americans. That is one reason why today’s ruling by the Supreme Court is so important. With this landmark ruling, the Court honors the spirit of cultural preservation and ensures that Native American children have the opportunity to thrive within their own heritage. The Supreme Court got this one right”
The
Governor’s Office of Tribal Affairs
released the following statement, “California is home to the largest population of Native Americans – a population that continues to strengthen family, community and culture despite surviving unimaginable indignities and atrocities throughout history. Today, we are pleased that the US Supreme Court has upheld the thoughtful and hard-won protections of the Indian Child Welfare Act. The State of California will continue to be a strong partner to Tribal Nations in the spirit of truth & healing.”
Ramos, has been a longtime proponent to strengthen the rights of tribal foster youth. Since assuming office in 2019, the lawmaker he has successfully introduced four measures to protect and ensure the rights of Native American foster children.
###
Assemblymember James C. Ramos proudly represents the 45th Assembly district which includes the Cities of Fontana, Highland, Mentone, Redlands, Rialto and San Bernardino. He is the first and only California Native American serving in the state’s legislature. Ramos chairs the Assembly Committees on Rules.