SACRAMENTO – California’s Natural Resources Agency (CNRA) would be authorized to enter into cogovernance and comanagement agreements with the state’s federally recognized tribes to share responsibility, decision making, and partnership in resource management and conservation within a tribe’s ancestral lands. Assemblymember James C. Ramos (D-San Bernardino) introduced the measure, AB 1284, which will now head to the governor on a final Assembly concurrence vote of 61-0.
Ramos said, “Under current law the (CNRA) is not required to work with tribal communities even though the state’s First People have managed the land and its resources for centuries. In 2011, Governor Brown signed Executive Order B-10-11 that reaffirmed California’s recognition of Tribal Communities as sovereigns of their own territory and people and as citizens of the state. It also committed the state to foster and sustain government-to-government relationships with tribal communities to address areas of mutual concern and to have meaningful consultations. This bill continues to make that commitment a reality and help ensure that together we act to protect endangered natural resources and meet critical climate goals.”
Ramos added that AB 1284 would further California's 30x30 Initiative that puts California on the path to conserving 30% of the state’s lands and coastal waters by 2030.
AB 1284 would authorize the secretary or a delegate to begin government-to-government negotiations on cogovernance and comanagement agreements with the tribe within 90 days of a request by a federally recognized tribe.
Fawn C. Murphy, Chairperson of the Pulikla Tribe of Yurok People
and a bill co-sponsor
, stated, “AB 1284 will create a clear path for true cogovernance and comanagement. California’s federally recognized tribes have the knowledge and expertise to co-manage lands and waters in their ancestral territories. Now more than ever we need tribal co-management if we are going to help the state reach its 30x30 goals and combat a changing climate. We urge Governor Newsom to sign this bill.”
Jeri Lynn Thompson, Chairperson of the Tolowa Dee-ni’ Nation, another AB 1284 co-sponsor
said, "The success of AB 1284 in the legislature is a victory for all tribal nations in California. It paves the way for more equitable partnerships with the state in managing our natural resources. We call on Gov. Newsom to sign this bill and help usher in a new era of collaboration that respects tribal sovereignty and our deep connection to the land and waters."
A partial list of AB 1284 supporters includes Blue Lake Rancheria Tribe Of California, California State Parks Foundation, California Tribal Chairpersons' Association, Cher-Ae Heights Indian Community Of The Trinidad Rancheria, Jamul Indian Village of California, Santa Ynez Band of Chumash Indians, Elk Valley Rancheria, California; Intertribal Sinkyone Wilderness Council, Defenders Of Wildlife, Friends Of The River, Ocean Conservancy and Pew Charitable Trusts.
The governor has until September 30 to sign or veto bills passed by the Legislature.
###
Assemblymember James C. Ramos proudly represents the 45th Assembly district which includes the Cities of Fontana, Highland, Mentone, Redlands, Rialto and San Bernardino. He is the first and only California Native American serving in the state’s legislature. Ramos chairs the Assembly Budget Subcommittee #6 on Public Safety.