Sacramento, CA - Led by Assemblymember David Alvarez (D-San Diego), the Assembly has passed by bipartisan vote, Assembly Joint Resolution (AJR) 12, demanding immediate funding and an emergency declaration to address the growing environmental disaster at the Tijuana River watershed, which releases billions of gallons of untreated sewage and continues to cause chaos in South San Diego County.
The resolution identifies health concerns and the impacts caused by 800+ days and counting of closed beaches. Surrounding communities continue to be affected through decreased tourism, economic losses to local businesses, and youth recreation and camp opportunities. This is the first statewide call for action and a declaration of emergency following the County of San Diego declaring a local emergency on June 27, 2023, due to the cross-border pollution and the impacts it continues to cause on the public's health, the environment, and the local economy.
"The Federal Government must act now! The Tijuana River has been experiencing decades-long cross-border water pollution, causing numerous health problems, significant beach closures, and environmental damage," said Assemblymember Alvarez (D-San Diego). "Our bi-partisan San Diego delegation is urging President Biden and Congress to take immediate action, providing funding and critical support for the South Bay International Wastewater Treatment Plant. It will help us end the beach closures in the City of Imperial Beach and present impacts on public health, the environment, and the local economy."
The Legislature requests President Biden and Congress to take action, including the approval of $310,000,000 in critical back funding, technical support, and operation and maintenance funding for the South Bay International Wastewater Treatment Plant, to bring the Tijuana River into compliance with the Clean Water Act and end the beach closures in the City of Imperial Beach.
AJR 12 will now proceed to the State Senate, where it will be heard at a date to be determined.
###
The 80th Assembly District includes the communities of Barrio Logan, Logan Heights, Sherman Heights, Lincoln Acres, Bonita, Otay Mesa and San Ysidro, along with the cities of Chula Vista, National City and Imperial Beach.