Today, Assemblymember Mia Bonta (D-Oakland) released the following statement reacting to the announcement that the National Telecommunications and Information Administration (NTIA) approved California’s application for funding to implement the California Department of Technology’s (CDT) Digital Equity Plan. The plan was created as a result of Assemblymember Bonta’s 2022 bill, AB 2750, which directed the CDT to develop a digital equity plan to identify barriers to digital equity faced by covered populations, document and promote digital equity among covered populations, and assess the impact of increasing digital equity.
“
In this era of interconnectivity, affordable broadband is a necessity, and we cannot allow Californians in rural or low-income communities to be left behind. I am beyond thrilled that, due to my legislation, California will receive $70 million in federal funds to achieve our state’s Digital Equity Plan. This will allow us to make much-needed progress to close the ‘digital divide’ and ensure that all Californians, regardless of socio-economic status or race, have equal access to educational opportunities, health care services, employment prospects, and civic life. It is clear to me that there is still progress to be made in ensuring that ALL Californians are brought up to speed. I remain committed to continuing to advance this issue in the legislature,
”
said Assemblymember Mia Bonta.
Assemblymember Bonta introduced AB 2239 to prohibit digital discrimination in 2024. While the bill did not reach the Governor’s desk, it was heralded as a bill to watch and defied expectations by progressing as far as it did in the face of a well-funded opposition campaign led by the broadband industry.
Assemblymember Bonta remains committed to advancing equity for disconnected Californians in 2025.
###
Assemblymember Mia Bonta
represents California’s 18
th
Assembly District encompassing the East Bay including Oakland, Alameda, and Emeryville. She also chairs the Assembly Health Committee.