SACRAMENTO, CA – Assemblymember Damon Connolly (D-San Rafael) has announced that the Sonoma County-based organization
Latino Service Providers
was selected as the 2024 California Nonprofit of the Year for Assembly District 12. Latino Service Providers was founded in 1989 to increase awareness of available resources, create access to programs and services, influence public policy, and promote professional development within the Latinx community in Sonoma County. This community-based nonprofit serves to educate and network in support of the Latinx community to improve access to healthcare, mental health services, education, legal support and other social services.
“
Latino Service Providers is a vital resource in our community due to their tireless efforts to uplift our neighborhoods and provide essential support and resources to the Latinx community
,” said Assemblymember Damon Connolly. “
It is an honor to recognize this organization for all that they contribute to Assembly District 12, and support them as they continue their impactful work.
”
“This recognition is a vibrant celebration of the incredible individuals we serve and the boundless energy of our dedicated team. At Latino Service Providers, we're not just an organization—we're a community of young leaders, passionately driven by the belief that we are the change we wished to see when we were younger,” said Stephanie Manieri, Executive Director at Latino Service Providers. “As we continue to cultivate the next generation of leaders, we proudly stand as a beacon of hope and possibility for all those who dare to dream.”
As the voice for California’s nonprofit community, the California Association of Nonprofits has partnered with the California Legislature in celebrating the ninth year of California Nonprofits of the Year.
Their dedication to serving communities and advancing causes that might otherwise go unnoticed or underserved is crucial in creating meaningful change. It is an honor to recognize Latino Service Providers as Assembly District 12’s Nonprofit of the Year for their service in
advancing the development of young leaders, building awareness about health and wellness, culture and advocacy for social equity.
###
Assemblymember Connolly represents the entirety of Marin County and Southern Sonoma County