Irvine, CA
- The City of Irvine furthered its commitment to inclusion with the opening of its first universal playground today at Sweet Shade Neighborhood Park.
Local leaders and community members were joined by members of the Irvine Eagles Special Olympics Basketball Team, which provided a demonstration of the adaptive basketball court, at a ribbon cutting ceremony to celebrate this long-awaited, accessible play space that meets the needs of all residents regardless of ability.
Wheelchair accessible with multigenerational play components to support usage by those with disabilities, as well as their parents and caregivers, the universal playground truly embodies its theme — “A Space for Everyone.”
The City conducted extensive public outreach to help shape the design of the playground, which features an outer space theme and includes adaptive swings; a Bankshot Basketball court with creatively angled, curved, and uniquely configured basketball backboards; a sensory garden; and an adjacent restroom with an adult changing area.
“Sweet Shade Universal Playground is a vibrant reflection of our City’s commitment to inclusivity, ensuring all residents have access to equitable services and opportunities,”
Irvine Mayor Farrah N. Khan
said. “I am so excited to see this new playground serve as a place of joy, inclusivity, and connection — where family members of all ages and abilities can come together and create meaningful memories.”
Funding for this innovative space was largely secured by Assemblywoman Cottie Petrie-Norris, who helped deliver $2.8 million in state funding for the project.
"I’m thrilled to see Sweet Shade Neighborhood Park transformed into a STEM-based, all-inclusive playground where children of all abilities can come together to play, learn, and explore," said
Assemblywoman Cottie Petrie-Norris (73rd District).
"I’m especially proud to have secured $2.8 million in the state budget that helped bring this project to life. This investment reflects my commitment to creating spaces where every child can thrive, while fostering a love for learning and promoting accessibility. I hope Sweet Shade Neighborhood Park will be a model for future projects that prioritize inclusivity.”
Sweet Shade is a 7.9-acre public neighborhood park and home to Sweet Shade Ability Center, where the City's Disability Services program provides activities for individuals with sensory, physical, or cognitive disabilities, and their family members. The creation of the City's first universal playground complements the Ability Center and will expand inclusive recreational opportunities for all Irvine residents.
View photos(link is external)
from the ribbon cutting ceremony. To learn more about Sweet Shade Universal Playground, visit
cityofirvine.org/universalplayground
.