(Sacramento) Today, Assemblymember David Alvarez (D-San Diego) is introducing Assembly Bill 2586, the Opportunity for All Act, which will provide equal access to campus employment opportunities for all students, regardless of their immigration status, at the University of California, California State University, and California Community Colleges campuses.
In 1986, the Federal Immigration Reform & Control Act (IRCA) passed. Subsequently, the federal government has continued to fail DREAMers, DACA, and families. California has committed to investing in our future and students in California. Therefore, the Opportunity for All Act aims to remove the current restrictions on the University of California, California State University, and California Community College's ability to hire undocumented students that are receiving a college degree. Currently, approximately 45,000 undocumented students in California cannot apply for student employment opportunities simply because of their status. This includes many graduate student research and teaching assistant positions, medical residency, and other educational and professional opportunities that would provide more financial stability and academic enrichment for students at institutions of higher learning.
The Assembly Bill will address the inequities faced by undocumented students in completing their degrees and supporting themselves financially while completing their education. The employment opportunities available at the University of California, California State University, and California Community Colleges can bridge the gap created by students' immigration status at educational institutions across the state.
“America has always promised that if you work hard, you will have the opportunity to succeed,” said Assemblymember David Alvarez. “These students have fulfilled their obligation and are ready to be our future teachers, scientists, doctors, and public servants. This bill will provide them with the opportunity to work. Creating these pathways to secure employment is essential.”
“Students attending UC campuses, state universities, and community colleges should have equal access to employment and other opportunities just like every other student, regardless of their immigration status,” said Senator María Elena Durazo. “They also need qualitative work experience and to earn an income during their studies, especially as college tuition hikes make it more difficult for our students to attain higher education.”
“I proudly stand in support of AB 2586 Opportunity for All, alongside the thousands of students enrolled across our state’s higher education public campuses who are still left out and told they have no right to gainful employment,” said Majority Leader Gonzalez (D – Long Beach). Every student should have equitable access to employment opportunities at California's public college campuses, regardless of their immigration status. The Golden State’s robust economic position as the fifth largest economy in the world is significantly shaped by the remarkable skills and dedication of a diverse workforce, which includes our undocumented students.”
“As an undocumented student deeply engaged in advocacy for our community, this legislation is much more than just a symbol of hope; it embodies the power of our united efforts. It supports our ability to learn and earn, lifting the barriers imposed on us simply because of our immigration status.” -Abraham Cruz Hernandez, UCLA undergraduate student and organizer with the Undocumented Student-Led Network
"This legislation is a beacon of inclusivity, enabling students like me to access the same opportunities as our peers. It's a crucial step towards equity in California's public education system by offering undocumented students the chance to fully engage in our academic communities and build a brighter future." -Jeffry Umaña Muñoz, UCLA undergraduate student and organizer with the Undocumented Student-Led Network
“This bill will provide equity in California’s public higher education system, ensuring students, regardless of their immigration status, have equal opportunities for campus employment. We must invest in our future workforce, and remove barriers that have for far too long prevented immigrant students from enjoying fair and equal treatment in employment. This is beneficial to our students, to our colleges and universities, and to our society at large.”- Kent Wong, Project Director for Labor and Community Partnerships at the UCLA Labor Center
Assembly Bill 2586 will be held for 30 days in print before being assigned to an Assembly Committee. For more information, please reach out to the Office of Assemblymember Alvarez.
###
The 80th Assembly District includes the communities of Barrio Logan, Logan Heights, Sherman Heights, Bonita, Lincoln Acres, Otay Mesa and San Ysidro, along with the cities of Chula Vista, National City and Imperial Beach.