Sacramento—
This fall in Los Angeles and San Diego, Speaker Robert Rivas brought together leaders for roundtable discussions on implementation of California’s new retail theft laws and public-safety solutions that will continue to keep all residents safe.
“Since the election, I’ve traveled the state to lean-in, listen and learn more about our communities’ views and priorities on public safety and criminal justice,”
Speaker Robert Rivas
said. “Californians expect accountability, and my focus is on harmonizing our public safety objectives with the principles of justice and rehabilitation, to foster a secure and equitable society here in our state. I appreciate everyone’s participation in these conversations, because if we’re going to succeed, we must work together.”
Implementing New Public Safety Laws in L.A.
In Los Angeles on December 5, Speaker Rivas met with Mayor Karen Bass and Select Committee on Retail Theft chair Assemblymember Rick Chavez Zbur (D-Hollywood) for a conversation on implementation of new public safety laws.
A diverse group of city of Los Angeles community leaders also joined the conversation, including: Assemblymember Mark González (D-Los Angeles), L.A. Police Chief Jim McDonnell, L.A. County Sheriff Robert Luna, L.A. County District Attorney Nathan Hochman, City Attorney Hydee Feldstein Soto, Public Defender Ricardo Garcia, along with criminal justice and business community leaders.
“As Mayor it is my top priority to keep Angelenos safe. That means working with all levels of government to hold those who commit crimes accountable, while also taking steps to prevent crime from happening in the first place. I look forward to continuing collaboration with leaders throughout the region to ensure we make L.A. a safer city for all,”
Mayor Karen Bass
said.
“California is leading the way in tackling retail theft with smart, effective solutions. Thanks to Speaker Robert Rivas' bold leadership and Governor Newsom's strong support, we’ve enacted a comprehensive package of laws that hold offenders accountable and address the root causes of crime,”
Assemblymember Rick Chavez Zbur said
. “As Chair of the Select Committee on Retail Theft, I’m proud of the work we’ve done to protect businesses, workers, and families across the state and look forward to working with Los Angeles Mayor Karen Bass and other public safety officials to implement these laws. Together, we’re ensuring every Californian not only is safe, but feels safe in their community.”
Public Safety Priorities in San Diego
In San Diego on November 15, Speaker Rivas joined Mayor Todd Gloria and Assembly members David Alvarez, LaShae Sharp-Collins and Darshana Patel to discuss implementation of new retail theft laws, and to understand different views about San Diegans’ public safety priorities. The meeting also was attended by San Diego Police Chief Scott Wahl, City Attorney Heather Ferbert, and business and community leaders.
“I applaud Speaker Rivas for making the effort to hear firsthand from local businesses and community leaders about the challenges they face from emerging crime trends like organized retail theft,”
Mayor Todd Gloria
said. “Throughout my career as a legislator and now as mayor, I have consistently supported policies that ensure criminals are held accountable when they harm our communities. The state’s retail theft legislation and Prop. 36 will further support this ongoing stance that I expect will benefit our neighborhoods and ensure San Diego remains one of the nation’s safest big cities.”
Strongest Retail Theft and Property Crime Laws in a Generation
In November 2023, Speaker Rivas
formed the Select Committee on Retail Theft
and appointed Assemblymember Zbur as its chair. The committee held multiple public hearings across the state, receiving testimony from a variety of experts and stakeholders.
In spring of 2024, the Assembly
introduced a comprehensive, bipartisan legislative package
to provide California with new tools to address organized retail theft rings, dangerous “smash and grab” crimes and other issues. The bills were
signed into law
this summer.
The new laws were developed in collaboration with public safety, business and community groups, and will provide additional tools to hold accountable people who profit off repeat theft. The laws will protect businesses, workers and shoppers, and also provide diversion pathways for those experiencing poverty, behavioral-health or substance-use issues.
What The Retail Theft Laws Do
New felony charge for people who
repeatedly
commit retail theft
Allows law enforcement to aggregate stolen property across different locations and victims, to charge Felony Grand Theft
Establishes retail crime restraining order, for up to two years, to address vandalism, assault and theft
Imposes sentencing enhancements, of up to four-plus years, for high value property theft or destruction, addressing “smash and grab” crimes.
Addressing Root Causes
Extended cap for probation
Requires court to look at underlying causes of theft
Encourages diversion and rehab for theft due to substance use or poverty
Overview of Bipartisan Laws
AB 2943 (Zbur, Rivas): creates new retail theft felony crime.
AB 3209 (Berman): authorizes courts to impose a Retail Crime Restraining Order.
AB 1779 (Irwin): restores cross jurisdictional charging.
AB 1960 (Rivas): Addresses “smash-and-grab” crimes with new penalties.
AB 1972 (Alanis): expands CHP property crimes task forces to support increased levels of cargo theft.
AB 1802 (Jones-Sawyer): makes permanent the crime of organized retail theft and the operation of the CHP property crimes task force.
SB 1144 (Skinner): Disrupts the sale of stolen goods on online marketplaces by requiring that third-party sellers be certified, and bans sellers suspected of criminal activity from operating through online marketplace platforms.
SB 905 (Wiener): Removes the locked door loophole for automotive property thefts.
SB 982 (Wahab): Cements the work California has done on organized crime by making the law on organized retail theft permanent.
SB 1242 (Min): Requires courts to impose higher penalties on criminals who create fires in order to engage in retail theft.
SB 1416 (Newman): Increases penalties on professional organized retail theft in particularly significant large-scale resale schemes.
For additional information, please contact:
Speaker Robert Rivas Press Secretary,
Cynthia.Moreno@asm.ca.gov
.
###