SACRAMENTO
–
This weekend, Assemblymember Mia Bonta’s (D - Oakland) bill, AB 2786, to allow WIC benefits to be utilized at certified mobile farmers’ markets, was signed by Governor Gavin Newsom. With over 940,000 Californians participating in the federally funded Special Supplemental Nutrition Program for Women, Infants, and Children (WIC), AB 2786 provides these recipients access to a growing source of fresh produce across the state.
“Today is a major win for Californians, for low-income families struggling to access healthy food, for farmers committed to feeding their communities, and for those afflicted by health conditions that could be mitigated through increased access to fresh produce,”
said Assemblymember Mia Bonta.
“Mobile farmers markets are an emerging strategy to bring fresh fruits and vegetables directly to communities. This bill will make nutritious, culturally relevant options more accessible to Californians who may otherwise rely on convenience stores with limited availability of fresh produce.”
AB 2786 establishes the definition of a mobile farmers’ market in state law and requires the Department of Public Health to seek federal approval to authorize mobile farmers’ markets to participate in the WIC Farmers Market Nutrition Program as vendors. California is home to five active mobile farmers’ markets — operating across Butte, Contra Costa, Marin, San Francisco, Santa Barbara, Santa Clara, and Yolo counties, with an additional slated to serve communities in Alameda, Napa, Los Angeles, and San Luis Obispo counties in the near future.
“I am so excited that Gov. Newsom signed AB 2786! I became a mother at 22. I was a hardworking college student who needed support, and WIC helped me stretch my food budget. Working in nutrition and food equity now, it was difficult to tell customers they could not use their WIC FMNP benefits at our Mobile Farmers Market,”
said Darolyn Turner, Nutrition Education and Food Access Specialist at Fresh Approach.
“With this bill signed, WIC recipients will be able to support their local farmers and access quality produce for themselves and their families.”
“We are delighted that Governor Newsom signed AB 2786 to create a legal definition for Certified Mobile Farmers Markets and a new pathway for WIC participants to shop with their benefits to buy healthy, local, and fresh foods. Thanks to Assemblymember Bonta for her leadership in introducing this important legislation to champion better nutrition and health while supporting California's small farmers,"
said Andy Naja-Riese, CEO of the Agricultural Institute of Marin, and operator of the Rollin' Root Mobile Farmers Markets.
“Allowing WIC participants to use their benefits as mobile farmers’ markets will not only increase access to nutritious food for low-income communities but will improve recipient’s long-term health outcomes,”
said Assemblymember Mia Bonta.
AB 2786 goes into effect on January 1, 2025.
###
Assemblymember Mia Bonta
represents California’s 18
th
Assembly District encompassing the East Bay including Oakland, Alameda, and Emeryville. She also chairs the Assembly Health Committee.