Sacramento, CA
— Today, Assemblymember Bauer Kahan’s legislation combatting California's persistent plastic bag pollution problem, AB 2236, passed the Assembly floor. The bill mirrors partner legislation, SB 1053 by Assemblymember Blakespear. The bills eliminate the option to receive an unwoven plastic bag at grocery stores, retail that includes grocery, and convenience stores. The bills are supported by a broad coalition of environmental groups, as well as the California Grocers Association and International Paper.
"Plastics are the next front in our fight against big oil. By 2050, plastic production will exceed 20% of global oil production,"
said Assemblymember Bauer-Kahan (D-Orinda).
"AB 2236 is a critical step to eliminate plastic pollution, and eliminates an opportunity for the oil industry to continue destroying our planet."
AB 2236 eliminates single use plastic bags at grocery stores, a process begun by SB 270 in 2013. SB 270 allowed for a reusable plastic bag that has proven to be a less sustainable option that is not reused or recycled. Since 2013, New York, New Jersey, and Colorado have all passed their own plastic bag bans. AB 2236 substantiates California's environmental agenda by fortifying regulations on the use of plastic bags. This legislation ensures a quick transition to sustainable alternatives like paper and reusable bags.
The bills have summoned a historic coalition of organizations in support including the Ocean Conservancy, Azul, National Resources Defense Council, International Paper, the California Grocers Association, Kroger’s, Sierra Club, Californian’s Against Waste, and many California cities. AB 2236
represents a union of interests between business and environmental advocates to eliminate plastic bags.
"These plastic bags are polluting our waterways and filling our landfills, even though California decided to eliminate those years ago,”
said Assemblymember Bauer-Kahan (D-Orinda).
“It’s time to eliminate plastic bags once and for all.”
###