SACRAMENTO, CA
– This year 13 bills authored by Assemblymember Mike Fong (D-Alhambra) were signed into law by Governor Gavin Newsom, addressing issues across California, including those related to higher education, housing and victims of the 2023 Monterey Park shooting.
AB 3087 will extend the California Community Colleges Economic and Workforce Development Program to January 1, 2030, which aids California’s Community Colleges in providing education and training programs that allow students to meet the demands of the job market and further aids our state’s economy by meeting the needs of businesses and industries.
AB
1038 will aid the City of South Pasadena in increasing the availability of affordable housing by establishing a process through which the city can acquire and sell uninhabitable properties
within the State Route 710 corridor and use the proceeds from the sales to develop affordable housing.
AB 2979 ensures that payments received from the California Victim Compensation Board (CalVCB) are exempt from state taxes. Assemblymember Mike Fong introduced AB 2979 to make it clear for survivors of violent crimes, such as the mass shooting that took place in Monterey Park, that CalVCB payments are not considered gross income for the purposes of state taxes.
“I want to thank Governor Newsom for signing my priorities into law, as each of these bills has the ability to address the needs of not only those in the San Gabriel Valley, but across our state,” Assemblymember Fong said. “I look forward to continuing our efforts to improve the lives of our San Gabriel Valley community and all Californians.”
Legislation by Assemblymember Mike Fong signed into law by the Governor is listed below:
AB 247 – Education finance: school facilities: Kindergarten through Community College Public Education
Places a state general obligation bond on the 2024 statewide ballot to fund the construction and modernization of K-12 and California Community Colleges school facilities.
AB
1038 - Surplus Rental Property: City of South Pasadena
Aligns the process for the City of South Pasadena to sell properties within the State Route 710 (SR 710) corridor with the process established for the City of Pasadena, which will increase the city’s affordable housing stock.
AB 1142 – California Community Colleges Civic Center Act
Extends the sunset date for the Civic Center Act at community colleges from January 1, 2025 to January 1, 2030, to ensure that structures and facilities built with public funds are accessible to the public for uses beyond schooling.
AB 2047 – Public postsecondary education: discrimination prevention
Requires the California State University (CSU), and the University of California (UC) to establish a systemwide office of Civil Rights to oversee and monitor the system’s efforts to prevent and address sex discrimination and sexual harassment on campus. The measure also requires each campus of the CSU and UC to establish a campus-based Title IX office to assist in addressing sexual harassment complaints that occur on campus.
AB 2048 – Community colleges: community college sexual harassment and Title IX working group
Requires the Chancellor of the California Community Colleges (CCC) to submit a report to the Legislature with recommendations on systemic reforms to help prevent, detect, and address sexual harassment on community college campuses.
AB 2275 – Trustees of the California State University (CSU): appointees
Requires, to the greatest extent possible, that members appointed to the CSU Board of Trustees be representative of the demographics of the state, including race and gender, disability, veterans, among others.
AB 2500 – Student financial aid: application deadlines: postponement
Streamlines the process for local educational agencies and higher education institutions to request an extension of the deadline for students to submit financial aid applications to the California Student Aid Commission following an emergency or other event.
AB 2573 – Policy fellows: status of services: Capitol Associations
Specifies that the services of a fellow hosted by the Asian Pacific Islander Capitol Association, the California Black Staff Association, the Capitol LGBTQ Association, or The California Latino Capitol Association Foundation, is not considered compensation, a reward, a gift, an interest, a business, a transaction, a professional activity, or an obligation.
AB 2631 – Local agencies: ethics training
Requires the Fair Political Practices Commission to create and maintain a free online ethics training course.
AB 2931 – Community colleges: classified employees: merit system: part-time student-tutors
Exempts community college districts with merit systems from classifying part-time students employed part time as “student-tutors.”
AB 2979 – Income taxation: exclusion: victim compensation
Clarifies that payments from the California Victim Compensation Fund are not taxable under state law.
AB 3087 – California Community Colleges Economic and Workforce Development Program
Extends the sunset of the California Community Colleges Economic and Workforce Development Program by five years, from January 1, 2025 to January 1, 2030.
AB 3261 – Horse racing: out-of-state thoroughbred races
Increases the per day statewide limit on the total number of thoroughbred races imported by associations or fairs when live thoroughbred or fair racing is being conducted in the state from 50 to 75.
###