Sacramento
- In a significant step towards combating the Fentanyl epidemic, Assemblymember Matt Haney’s (D-San Francisco) AB 1976 has cleared its final legislative hurdle by passing out of the California State Senate with a 40 to 0 vote and the Assembly with a final 64 to 0 vote. The bill previously has had strong bipartisan support throughout the legislative process. AB 1976 that requires first aid kits in all workplaces in California to contain naloxone nasal spray — a lifesaving medication that can completely reverse a deadly opioid overdose by being sprayed in the nostrils. It will now head to the Governor’s Desk where it awaits Governor Newsom’s signature.
According to the U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration more than half of the counterfeit prescription pills being trafficked in communities across the country now contain a potentially deadly dose of fentanyl.
“If fentanyl continues to be more accessible than naloxone, we’re going to keep seeing an increase in overdose deaths in our communities,” said Haney, who chairs the Assembly’s Fentanyl and Opioid Overdose Prevention Committee. “Until we can cut off the supply of fentanyl to our state, we have a responsibility to make sure that we’re saving as many lives as possible — especially the lives of our youth.”
All California businesses with employees are currently required to have a first aid kit in the breakroom or common space. AB 1976 will dramatically increase the accessibility of naloxone, making California a world leader in access to the lifesaving medication. Any person that sees someone exhibiting the symptoms of an overdose will know that naloxone is on hand in the first aid kit of the nearest business.
The legislation requires that Cal-OSHA, who currently is responsible for enforcing employer first aid kits regulations, develop standards and enforcement practices to ensure naloxone is in all first aid kits.
“I’ve heard from hundreds of family members whose loved ones would still be alive if naloxone had been on site,” said Haney. “Naloxone is a miracle drug in many ways. But it can’t perform miracles if it’s not there when you need it.”
###