SACRAMENTO
– Today, Assembly Speaker Robert Rivas (D-Hollister) and Senate Pro Tem Mike McGuire (D-North Coast) announced a joint legislative budget proposal and plans for budget committee hearings beginning this week.
The Senate and Assembly have aligned on several budget priorities, including to restore funding to build housing and reject many social services cuts. The proposal also would save approximately half of the state’s reserves for future budget years.
What Speaker Robert Rivas Says
“Fixing California’s deficit means making tough choices, so the Assembly came to these negotiations focused on preserving programs that matter most to Californians: lowering the cost of living, expanding affordable housing access and sustaining public services. The Legislature’s budget plan restores funding to build more homes, supports K-12 classrooms and rejects many of the cuts that impact our most vulnerable residents. I appreciate the tireless efforts of our budget committees, and will continue to work closely with Pro Tem McGuire and Governor Newsom to deliver a balanced and responsible budget.”
What Pro Tem Mike McGuire Says
“Speaker Rivas and I are ready and raring to go with this Legislative budget plan and eager to continue to work with our colleagues and Governor Newsom on getting a final budget agreement across the finish line. This agreement is sound and makes the necessary tough decisions meeting the needs of this critical time, all while maintaining our commitment to strong public schools, investing in desperately needed resources in homelessness and workforce housing, health care access, resources to keep our communities fire safe, key climate investments and more. I'm grateful for the partnership of Speaker Rivas, and the dedication and hard work of our Budget Chair, Subcommittee Chairs and Committees, who have been working overtime to get this Legislative deal done. We look forward to delivering a final on-time balanced budget in the weeks ahead.”
Additional Details
Additional details on the Legislature’s budget proposal can be found
here
.
Assembly
and
Senate
budget committees and subcommittees will hold hearings on the legislative budget proposal beginning this week.
California’s state constitution requires the Legislature to pass a Budget Bill by June 15.
###
Assembly Speaker Robert Rivas represents California’s 29th Assembly District, which includes all of San Benito County and portions of Monterey, Santa Cruz, and Santa Clara Counties. For a full biography of Speaker Rivas, click
here
.
Mike McGuire is President pro Tempore of the California Senate. He represents the North Coast of California, which stretches from the Golden Gate Bridge to the Oregon border, including Del Norte, Trinity, Humboldt, Lake, Mendocino, Sonoma, and Marin counties. Website of Senate Leader McGuire:
https://sd02.senate.ca.gov/