Assemblymember Alex Lee’s legislation to streamline train electrification projects is headed to the Governor’s desk. AB 2503 will advance California’s climate goals by helping transit agencies electrify their fleets more rapidly.
“Electric trains are greener, faster and more reliable,” said Assemblymember Lee. “In the midst of the climate crisis, we can’t afford delays to electrifying California’s trains. AB 2503 will enable transit agencies to electrify their fleets much faster. Train electrification is crucial to reducing greenhouse gas emissions in California and creating a more sustainable transit system.”
The bill will help eliminate the barriers of train electrification. For instance, Caltrain is launching its fully electrified service between San Francisco and San Jose in September 2024, but the project was subject to significant delays.
Lawsuits
using CEQA bogged down Caltrain’s electrification efforts for years.
AB 2503, which passed the Legislature with bipartisan support, exempts zero-emission railway projects on existing rails from the requirements of the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA). Train electrification improves air quality, speeds up train service, and increases ridership. Currently, many passenger and freight rail lines are reliant on diesel locomotives that emit greenhouse gas emissions. In addition, electric rail runs more efficiently. It enables more frequent and/or faster train service to more riders, increasing fare revenues while decreasing fuel costs.
California has the goal of reducing greenhouse gas emissions to
at least 85%
below 1990 levels and achieve carbon neutrality by 2045. The California Air Resources Board (CARB)
identifies
the reductions of cars on the road, or Vehicles Miles Traveled (VMT), as a critical strategy to achieving California’s climate goals. CARB notes that attaining VMT reductions include investments in making transit a viable alternative to driving.
Electric rail is a more sustainable alternative, and CARB
set new regulation
in 2023 to increase the use of zero-emission trains. Locomotives like industrial and passenger trains with engines built in 2030 or after will be required to go zero-emissions. Overall, the board estimates that the regulation will help reduce 21.6 million metric tons of greenhouse gas emissions by 2050.
By granting CEQA streamlining for rail electrification, AB 2503 will enable transit agencies to advance California’s climate goals and improve rail service. The bill is sponsored by Streets For All and Californians for Electric Rail.
"Overhead electrified rail is the best form of rail for the environment and passengers alike,” said Marc Vukcevich, Director of State Policy for Streets For All. “We need to be doing whatever we can to reduce the barriers to clean, fast, and efficient trains that take cars off the road and ultimately make our communities better for it. We strongly urge the governor to sign the bill and appreciate Assemblymember Lee for his stewardship of this issue."
"Electric rail is a multi-solver for climate change, air pollution, and traffic,” said Adriana Rizzo, a member of Californians for Electric Rail. “Electrification of our railways is critical to meet California's climate goals, and I encourage Gov. Newsom to sign AB 2503 to accelerate overhead electrification of passenger rail. Thank you to Asm. Lee for his leadership and our co-sponsor and all the supporters for helping us get to where we are today."