(Sacramento, CA) Feb. 27, 2024
– Dr. Jasmeet Bains (D-Delano), Chair of the Assembly Committee on Aging and Long-Term Care, introduced five bills in this legislative session aimed at addressing issues facing older adults.
The proposed legislation touches on various issues including: training for peace officers relating to dementia, Alzheimer’s, and autism, enhancing protections against elder abuse, and ensuring Californians can continue contributing to Alzheimer’s and dementia research on their tax returns.
“Actions we take now can ensure that our aging population and the people that care for them have the support they need and are aware and able to access the programs the state offers,” said Dr. Bains, who also serves as the Chair of the Assembly Committee on Aging and Long-Term Care.
A study released by the California Department of Finance in 2022 estimates that 10.3 million Californians will be 60 or older by 2030. Sometimes referred to as a ‘silver tsunami,’ the growing older population presents unique challenges that intersect with nearly every aspect of California law. This session’s legislation focuses on the health and safety of older adults and plans for a growing aging population in the future.
The bill package includes:
AB 2541 requires Peace Officer Standards and Training (POST) to work with experts to develop guidelines addressing wandering associated with Alzheimer’s disease, autism, and dementia.
AB 2551 lowers the age threshold for elder and dependent adult abuse and neglect from 65 to 60.
AB 2689 extends the operation of the California Alzheimer’s Disease and Related Dementia Research Voluntary Tax Contribution Fund until December 31, 2030.
AB 2620 clarifies provisions relating to the California Commission on Aging.
AB 2636 modernizes and clarifies provisions in the Older Californians Act.
As the Chair of the Assembly Committee on Aging and Long-Term Care, Dr. Bains will play a significant leadership role as the bill package enters the committee process next month.
# # #
Dr. Jasmeet Bains represents the 35th Assembly District in Kern County, including the cities of Bakersfield, Delano, Wasco, Arvin, Shafter, and McFarland.