AB 2525, a bill that will help the City of Los Angeles and other governmental agencies in providing services to people experiencing homelessness in RVs, will go into effect on January 1, 2025
SACRAMENTO, CA
—Assemblymember and Democratic Caucus Chair Rick Chavez Zbur (D-Hollywood) announced today that Governor Gavin Newsom signed AB 2525, a critical piece of legislation sponsored by Los Angeles Mayor Karen Bass to reduce homelessness and make it easier to provide housing and services to unhoused people living in RVs. AB 2525 will reduce homelessness by allowing the City to lease property from the California Department of Transportation (Caltrans) at a reduced rate to store recreational vehicles (RVs) while the unhoused Angelenos receive housing and services through the
Mayor's Inside Safe program
.
"With thousands of people experiencing homelessness living in RVs, the need for safe storage as we transition Angelenos into housing is urgent," said
Assemblymember Rick Chavez Zbur
. "This bill strengthens Mayor Karen Bass's Inside Safe initiative, which has already moved a record number of people off the streets. Thank you, Mayor Bass, for your leadership. AB 2525 will authorize the State to better partner with the City of Los Angeles to provide real solutions for community members experiencing homelessness."
"RV encampments pose a range of tactical and logistical challenges that require legislative and regulatory fixes," said
Los Angeles Mayor Karen Bass
. "This bill will help us move RVs out of neighborhoods and bring more Angelenos into housing in a faster and cheaper way. I want to thank Assemblymember Zbur for his leadership on this important issue and Governor Newsom for his support as we confront this crisis head-on."
In order to effectively assist the unhoused residents of Los Angeles who currently live in RVs, the City needs additional locations to store the RVs taken off the streets while the residents of these vehicles are moved into interim housing. AB 2525 will play a key role in that effort. The bill allows the City of Los Angeles to lease CalTrans property for $1 per month to store RVs, opening up additional locations for the City to use.
This is the third bill authored by Assemblymember Zbur to address the housing and homelessness crisis. This month, Governor Newsom signed AB 2477, a bill aimed at preventing homelessness by empowering youth in foster care to build stronger financial safety nets as they transition into adulthood. Last year, Assemblymember Zbur authored AB 1620, a bill authorizing local jurisdictions to require that tenants in rent-controlled units who have permanent physical disabilities related to mobility be allowed to relocate to an available, accessible unit at the same rental rate and terms.
Since the implementation of Mayor Bass' Inside Safe Program. tent encampments have come down in every council district, and thousands more Angelenos came inside than in 2022 thanks to action locking arms with the City Council, County and LAHSA.
Mayor Bass and Assemblymember Zbur look forward to collaborating in the future to improve the lives of Angelenos by expanding housing options and addressing homelessness. AB 2525 will take effect on January 1, 2025.
Assemblymember Rick Chavez Zbur serves as the Democratic Caucus Chair for the California State Assembly and represents the 51st Assembly District, which includes Universal City, Hollywood, Hancock Park, West Hollywood, Beverly Hills, Westwood, West Los Angeles, Santa Monica, and other portions of Los Angeles.
CONTACT:
Vienna Montague, (916) 319-2051, Vienna.Montague@asm.ca.gov