SACRAMENTO, CA—
Today, Assemblywoman Esmeralda Soria announced that her bill, AB 2104, to improve access to nursing bachelor degrees has been approved by the Legislature and next will be considered by the Governor.
AB 2104
authorizes the California Community Colleges to establish a pilot program to allow up to 10 community college districts to offer a Bachelor of Science in nursing degree.
This bill is in direct response to the closure of
Madera Community Hospital
and the shortage of healthcare workers which disproportionately impacts Central Valley communities, which are medically underserved.
AB 2104 prioritizes program placement to broadly recognized underserved nursing areas and will expand access and affordability of these degrees in local communities including Madera, Merced and Fresno.
“The shortage of nurses in California is hurting our most vulnerable communities, many in the Central Valley,”
said Assemblywoman Soria.
“Expanding access to nursing training programs is necessary to tackle this workforce challenge. AB 2104 will grow our nursing workforce in areas of the state most in need and help us better serve the healthcare needs of our communities.”
“The significance of AB 2104 advancing through Legislature cannot be understated, as expanding the pipeline to meet California's demand for qualified nurses is imperative,”
said Chancellor Dr. Carole Goldsmith, State Center Community College District.
“Assemblymember Esmeralda Soria's leadership in introducing legislation allowing community colleges to offer Bachelor of Science in Nursing degrees is crucial in addressing California's nursing shortage. With recent hospital closures in Madera County and elsewhere, it’s imperative that we act now.
We are proud to support Assemblymember Soria in her legislative quest to make this bill a reality. I’m proud of the State Center Community College District Board of Trustees who firmly support expanding educational opportunities and improved healthcare outcomes for all Californians.”
###