SACRAMENTO, CA—
Joint Authors Assembly Democratic Caucus Chair Rick Chavez Zbur (D-Hollywood) and Assemblywoman Sharon Quirk-Silva (D-La Palma) have announced that the California Housing Security Act, sponsored by the City of Santa Monica and Los Angeles County Board of Supervisors, has advanced out of the Assembly Housing and Community Development Committee. AB 2498 will increase housing security by providing housing subsidies to low-income former foster youth, older adults, veterans, adults with disabilities, people experiencing unemployment or homelessness, and recently incarcerated individuals, without regard to an individual's immigration status.
"One of the most cost-effective and compassionate ways of reducing the number of Californians experiencing homelessness is to empower people to stay in their homes," said
Assemblymember Rick Chavez Zbur
. "AB 2498 would create a statewide housing subsidy program to allow some of our most vulnerable people to remain housed while experiencing challenging and often life-altering circumstances. I’d like to thank Assemblymember Quirk-Silva for her leadership in prioritizing homelessness prevention and for her commitment to addressing the housing and homelessness crisis with real solutions."
One of the highest recommendations in the California Master Plan for Aging 2023-2024 Initiatives, based on research done by the Business, Consumer Services & Housing Agency, is to "explore emerging local government models to inform consideration of Rental Subsidy Programs for older adults and people with disabilities." This bill fulfills this recommendation while expanding its parameters to include other vulnerable populations.
"AB 2498 is a testament to our values as a society that believes in caring for our neighbors, lifting up the marginalized, and ensuring that every Californian has a place to call home," said
Assemblywoman Sharon Quirk-Silva
. "By providing crucial housing subsidies to those on the brink of losing access to a stable living situation, we can give individuals the chance to maintain their homes and their dignity. I would like to thank Assemblymember Zbur for his tireless work to craft a bill that not only addresses immediate needs but also lays the groundwork for long-term housing security."
The California Housing Security Act now moves to the Assembly Appropriations Committee, where it will be heard in the coming weeks.
Assemblymember Rick Chavez Zbur serves as the Democratic Caucus Chair for the California State Assembly and represents the 51st Assembly District, which includes Universal City, Hollywood, Hancock Park, West Hollywood, Beverly Hills, Westwood, West Los Angeles, Santa Monica, and other portions of Los Angeles.
Assemblywoman Sharon Quirk-Silva represents the 67th Assembly District, which includes the Orange County communities of Anaheim, Buena Park, Cypress, Fullerton, and La Palma, as well as the Los Angeles County communities of Artesia, Cerritos, and Hawaiian Gardens.
CONTACT:
Vienna Montague, (916) 319-2051, Vienna.Montague@asm.ca.gov