In celebration of Latino Heritage Month, Assemblymember Alex Lee honored 6 Latino community leaders and a Latino-owned local business alongside the event’s co-host San José City Councilmember Peter Ortiz. Together, they recognized the honorees for their dedication to making a difference in their communities.
“Latino Heritage Month is an opportunity for us to celebrate the rich history and contributions of Latin Americans,” said Assemblymember Lee. “My district of Alameda and Santa Clara counties is blessed with its diversity, and I was honored to recognize the district’s outstanding leaders. Their work serves as an example for all of us.”
“I appreciate the opportunity to partner with Assemblymember Lee to honor the achievements of some key Latino leaders in East San José,” said Councilmember Ortiz. “The contributions, culture, and leadership of Latinos in my district have not always gotten the spotlight they’ve deserved. This Latino Heritage Month is a great opportunity to recognize the amazing leadership that happens every day in East San José, and I’m privileged to share the stage with our honorees.”
Dr. Roxane Fuentes
Dr. Roxane Fuentes is the Superintendent of Berryessa Union School District. Under her leadership, the school district continues to expand student learning experiences and opportunities. Dr. Fuentes has helped nurture strong parent and community engagement, create innovative learning experiences for students, and promote a culture of equity, collaboration, and support.
Riko Mendez
Riko Mendez is the Chief Elected Officer of SEIU 521. His passion for the labor movement began as a student at UC Davis, where he advocated for immigrant rights and access to higher education for underrepresented communities. As CEO of SEIU 521, Riko is dedicated to building a 21st century union that champions the working class, lifts up our communities, and continues to grow in the coming decades.
Jessica Paz-Cedillos
Jessica Paz-Cedillos is the Co-Executive Director of the School of Arts and Culture at the Mexican Heritage Plaza. She is the daughter of immigrant parents from Mexico and El Salvador. Born and raised in East Oakland, Jessica knows firsthand the impact of arts and culture on youth. Her leadership in advancing the values of creativity, heritage, inclusion and service is key to making the Mexican Heritage Plaza an essential hub for the San José community.
Victoria Salas Salcedo
Victoria Salas Salcedo is an English teacher at Rancho Milpitas Middle School. She has a deep passion for sharing her Mexican heritage and Chicano culture. Victoria works to develop her classroom into a community where students feel encouraged to share their own culture, and learn about the diverse cultures of others.
Fernanda Morales
Fernanda Morales is a dedicated young leader committed to improving her community. She created the organization Devuélvenos Nuestra Comunidad to advocate for student safety, and her work has helped create safe and welcoming learning environments for our youth.
Tatiana Villaseñor Carrillo
Tatiana Villaseñor Carrillo is the first Community Organizer at the Latina Coalition of Silicon Valley through the Chispanas Program. Her leadership has amplified Latina voices and helped expand civic participation throughout Silicon Valley. She began her career by helping residents of disenfranchised neighborhoods with voter registration. Tatiana has recently been instrumental in advocating for equitable health access and public safety for all San José residents.
Tacos Al Pastor
Maria and Guillermo Robles became the owners of Tacos Al Pastor in 2003. They came to the United States in 1986 as a newlywed couple from a small town in Zacatecas, Mexico. The couple arrived with hopes and aspirations to raise their family and achieve the American dream. Over their 21 years of owning Tacos Al Pastor, they’ve been able to make their dream come true, and expand Tacos Al Pastor to a total of three locations.