Dear Constituents,
Happy Holidays!
First, I want to express my humble appreciation in serving as your representative for the 31stAssembly District. It has been my honor being your voice at the State Capitol since 2016, and I am grateful that I will continue in that elected position for another two-year term.
I want to share with you some of the work I undertook in 2024, which included seeing the fruition of projects that began earlier in my time as your Assemblymember.
In Sacramento, my focus is on legislation and the budget, with the assistance of my hard-working staff at the State Capitol. I’m proud that Governor Newsom signed nine of my bills into law and came to our region to sign two of them. The bills are:
AB 310
– This legislation will help improve patient care and outcomes at California State Hospitals by gathering data to inform future policies that will increase the trust and quality of care between patients and their psychiatrists.
AB 805
– All communities should have access to safe and affordable drinking water and sanitation. This bill authorizes the State Water Resources Control Board to appoint administrators to better manage failing systems and protect communities.
Gov. Newsom came to East Orosi in September to sign AB 805.
AB 1830
– Folic acid is essential to preventing birth defects. Food is the best way to get folic acid into women’s diets before they become pregnant. This bill requires manufacturers to fortify corn masa flour and wet corn masa product with folic acid. (A requirement already is in effect for enriched cereal grain product.)
AB 1855
– This bill ensures community college students can participate in public meetings without threat to safety, privacy, or accessibility. Eligible legislative student organizations at California community colleges will be allowed to use alternate teleconferencing provisions, if adopted by their Board of Trustees and the eligible body.
AB 1888
– Survivors of labor trafficking should not be traumatized when seeking help. AB 1888, co-authored by Assemblymember James C. Ramos of San Bernardino, ensures that the State prioritizes these victims through more efficient and comprehensive enforcement of existing labor trafficking laws.
Gov. Newsom signed AB 1888 at a bill signing in September in Sacramento.
AB 2080
– Every patient should have access to culturally and linguistically appropriate care. AB 2080 requires the University of California to report their progress towards increasing the size and diversity of our physician workforce.
AB 2240
– It eliminates an outdated requirement that forced farmworker families to move out of farm labor centers for a minimum of three months, or risk ineligibility. AB 2240, with Speaker Robert Rivas as principal co-author, also ensures that these centers must comply with health and safety codes.
AB 2543
– This bill provides all small business owners with the same opportunity to help California’s economy thrive. AB 2543 ensures that all small businesses will have access to the benefits of small business certification, regardless of the immigration status of the owners or operators.
AB 2795
– Members of tribal communities should receive equitable access to safety net programs. This bill, with Assemblymember Ramos as co-author, reduces administrative barriers to providing CalWORKS and Temporary Assistance for Needy Families (TANF) at Indian Health Clinics.
One of my priorities continues to be increasing access to health care. As an emergency room doctor in Selma, I saw what happens when someone without health insurance rushes to the emergency room as a last resort – and there were times when we couldn’t save everyone.
I and other health care advocates pushed to expand full scope Medi-Cal access to all income-eligible adults, regardless of immigration status – a much-needed change previously made for children, young adults, and seniors. Today, more than 1 million more people in California are enrolled in Medi-Cal and leading healthier lives.
Assemblymember Arambula in May attended the groundbreaking for the new UC Merced Medical Education building.
On a related issue, I continue to work on the critical need to produce more doctors and other medical professionals for the Central Valley. This year, I was happy to be part of the momentous groundbreaking for a new Medical Education Building at UC Merced. It’s a significant step forward in our effort to increase the health care workforce in our region.
The 31st District includes the City of Fresno. The strength and economic development of Fresno benefits Fresno County and Central California. I’ve worked with fellow Central Valley lawmakers and advocates to secure a historic $250 million in State funds for Fresno for major infrastructure that will help transform the city. We’ve received the first $50 million and the rest is pledged to come in a couple of years. I will do everything I can, with other local and State lawmakers, to ensure those funds are invested here as soon as possible.
Assemblymember Arambula was part of the groundbreaking in October for a major water/sewer infrastructure project in Downtown Fresno.
I also have always supported workforce development efforts, including securing State funds in past years for the Fresno Regional Workforce Development Board, Fresno City College, and Reedley College. I will continue to make this a priority, and I appreciate that Governor Newsom in November returned to Fresno to announce a new state jobs program.
This past year, I’ve seen progress on projects in the 31st District – particularly public safety projects – that began earlier in my service as an Assemblymember and were supported by millions of dollars in State funds that I helped secure:
The City of Fowler broke ground this October on a new Police Headquarters and Senior Citizens building.
A new Police Headquarters and Senior Citizens facility will be built in Fowler.
The City of Mendota (which was in the 31st District before redistricting) held a ribbon cutting in December for the new Police Department and City Council Chambers building.
Assemblymember Arambula participated in Mendota’s event for the city’s new facility.
Live Again Fresno, a nonprofit organization that does tremendous work with vulnerable children, held a groundbreaking ceremony in November for its forever home.
Assemblymember Arambula joined Live Again Fresno representatives for their milestone event.
Fresno State in April officially unveiled two state-of-the-art mobile health units through which students can deliver basic screenings and vaccinations to rural areas and underserved communities.
Assemblymember Arambula spoke at Fresno State’s event announcing the two new units.
Reedley College held a ribbon cutting in August for the new location for its aviation school and training program at Reedley Municipal Airport.
Reedley College’s aviation and training program has a new location.
Historic Hotel Fresno had its ribbon cutting in October for the completion of its restoration into much-needed affordable housing.
Fresno officials, downtown advocates, and Assemblymember Arambula celebrated Hotel Fresno’s transformation
I want to mention another important part of my work that takes place at home. The diligent staff members in my District Office in Fresno assist constituents who have issues or questions involving State agencies. If you need information or help with a problem, you can call the District Office at (559) 445-5532.
Assemblymember Arambula hosted his first-ever health and resource fair focused on seniors.
My District Office also coordinates three to four Community Health and Resource Fairs each fall and spring. And, this year we presented our first-ever Older Adult Wellness and Resource Fair in September – we appreciated everyone who turned out and hope to host another Senior Fair in 2025. As always, we couldn’t do any of these free events without the support and enthusiasm of our chief partners and dozens of agencies and organizations.
Pictured here are just some of the seniors who attended the Older Adult fair.
More than anything, I enjoy meeting with the people of the 31st District. I want to hear your concerns, and I welcome your ideas. I will say it again – it’s an honor to serve as your representative, and I pledge to work tirelessly on your behalf in 2025.
Sincerely,
Dr. Joaquin Arambula
Assemblymember, 31st District
Assembymember Arambula joined with arts advocates for an arts tour of Fresno with Speaker Emeritus Anthony Rendon in February.
Assemblymember Arambula at the annual Central Valley Veterans Day Parade in Fresno.
Assemblymember Arambula participated in the SGU Veterans and Families of California reception in October at The Fresno Center.
Farmworkers with the Central Valley Environmental Justice Network met with Assemblymember Arambula.
Assemblymember Arambula met with Fresno State President Saúl Jiménez-Sandoval in June about repatriation of Native American artifacts.
Assemblymember Arambula met with representatives for the Del Rey Community Service District.
The Assemblymember in April toured the Parlier Unified School District, including Parlier High’s Healthcare Careers Pathway program.
The Assemblymember visits with students involved in the West Fresno Family Resource Center’s Sweet Potato Project entrepreneurial program.
One of this year’s AD 31 Community Health and Resources Fairs was held in Orange Cove.
Assemblymember Arambula spoke at The Fresno Center’s 28th Annual Giving Thanks gala in November.
Assemblymember Arambula took a selfie with these seniors who were part of the Fresno Unified School District’s 2nd Annual Latinx High School Celebration in June.