SACRAMENTO, CA –
Assemblywoman Cottie Petrie-Norris (D-Irvine) joined legislative leaders and domestic violence victim advocates today to celebrate the passage of several bills that will help curb domestic violence and support survivors. The package of bills has been passed by the Legislature and currently awaits Governor Newsom’s signature.
“I am proud to work alongside incredible lawmakers, advocates, and survivors to help mitigate domestic violence in our State, hold abusers accountable, and keep our families and communities safe,” said
Assemblywoman Cottie Petrie-Norris
. “I commend my colleagues and the advocates working on this important issue, and I will continue to fight for survivors by addressing the intersection between gun violence and domestic violence.”
According to the National Domestic Violence Hotline, domestic violence is on the rise across the United States, with California experiencing higher rates of domestic violence when compared to the national average.
Reports
demonstrate that one in three women in the U.S. suffer from domestic violence at some point in their life.
This includes emotional, physical, or sexual violence from a current or former partner.
Furthermore, members of marginalized and disadvantaged groups, including people of color, LGBTQ+ individuals, undocumented immigrants, and people living with disabilities, have all faced increased vulnerability and risk to domestic violence.
“In a year marked by severe budget cuts to services for survivors of intimate partner violence and their families, legislation to reinforce existing laws and ensure comprehensive protections for survivors is more crucial than ever. Specifically, legislation that addresses the clear and growing connection between intimate partner violence and gun violence is urgently needed to safeguard our communities. Women's Foundation California is proud to support AB 2759, along with a suite of bills dedicated to promoting the safety, healing, and overall well-being of survivors across the state.” -
Women’s Foundation California, Solis Policy Institute Trauma Services and Prevention Team
In addition, Assemblywoman Petrie-Norris joined in a successful effort, spearheaded by Assemblywoman Eloise Gomez-Reyes, to secure the
inclusion
of $103 million in one-time funding for Crime Victim Services.
This package of legislation encompasses a broad array of policy protections for victims of domestic violence, including restraining order enhancements, paid leave for victims, stronger protections against gun violence, and more:
Assembly Bill 2759 (Petrie-Norris)
:
Victims of domestic violence are
five times more likely
to be murdered when their abusers have access to a firearm. Current law permits law enforcement and security guards who have committed a domestic violence offense to retain their firearm for their professional duties. This bill strengthens and clarifies that law to protect victims and the public.
Assembly Bill 2499 (Schiavo)
:
Allows an employee who is a victim of domestic violence or whose family member is a victim of domestic violence to take time off of work without penalty. Allows employees to take paid leave for this time, if available.
Assembly Bill 2621 (Gabriel)
:
Expands current hate crime training by including instruction on the role that gun violence restraining orders (GVROs) can play in preventing hate crimes. Encourages peace officers to use de-escalation practices if possible when responding to firearm incidents.
Senate Bill 690 (Susan Rubio)
:
Extends the statute of limitations for domestic violence from five years to seven years.
SB 963 (Ashby)
:
Builds on existing pilot programs that have successfully identified victims of human trafficking and domestic violence in emergency departments through a confidential process that prioritizes trauma informed care. This bill ensures emergency departments can better intervene and provide life-saving resources for one of our most vulnerable populations.
Senate Bill 989 (Ashby)
:
Expands law enforcement duties during an investigation of any death where the deceased has a history as a victim of domestic violence and treats the death as a suspicious death case. Expands the right to request an autopsy to family members.
Assembly Bill 2822 (Gabriel)
:
Requires law enforcement officers to include whether they removed a firearm or other deadly weapon from the scene of a domestic violence call in a domestic violence incident report.
WHAT PEOPLE ARE SAYING:
“As we confront the alarming rise in domestic violence, it's imperative that we take decisive action to protect survivors and support their recovery. This package of bills, including my legislation to ensure paid leave for crime victims, will go a long way to supporting the most vulnerable among us,” said
Assemblymember Pilar Schiavo (D-Chatsworth).
“Together, we are making strides towards a future where everyone can live free from fear and be safe in their own homes and communities."
“As a domestic violence survivor, I know it takes time to heal and hopefully this statute of limitations extension gives victims additional time as they seek justice,” said
Senator Susan Rubio (D-Baldwin Park)
“As I’ve said many times, the legal system surrounding domestic violence is flawed and still designed to protect abusers.  But I will not give up the fight to empower survivors and will continue to be a strong advocate.”
“Providing a mechanism for victims of human trafficking to safely report their abusers is vital to reducing and preventing further human trafficking cases,” said
Senator Angelique Ashby (D-Sacramento)
. “Oftentimes, the first and only contact a victim will have outside of their trafficking situation will be with a medical professional. SB 963 will provide a new tool for emergency room personnel to aid victims of human trafficking and connect them with resources.”
“Domestic violence continues to exact a high toll on the lives and well-being of survivors and their families and to cost this state an estimated $72 billion each year in terms of lost wages, medical care, and costs associated with the criminal justice system. Mindful of those costs, we are encouraged that, led by Assemblymember Eloise Gomez Reyes and Assemblymember Jesse Gabriel, the state budget provided $103 million in one-time funding to temporarily avert drastic cuts to victims’ services funding. We are also proud to support many domestic violence bills that now head to the Governor, including AB 2499, AB 2759, and AB 2822. We hope to see state leadership continue to work with the Partnership and our member agencies to elevate domestic violence as a key issue of concern for policymaking and to propose and pass legislation that increases survivor safety, agency, and well-being.”-
Christoper Negri, Associate Director of Public Policy Strategies, California Partnership to End Domestic Violence.