SACRAMENTO
–
Today, Assemblymember Mia Bonta’s (D – Oakland) joined Governor Gavin Newsom to celebrate the signing of AB 2020, the Human Trafficking Survivors Act, and uplift the need to center the experiences of survivors in our public policy process. The bill, which goes into effect at the beginning of next year, requires law enforcement agencies to establish policies for law enforcement interactions with human trafficking survivors.
“Survivors of human trafficking need support, not systemic barriers. This bill was born from the ongoing conversations I’ve had with organizations supporting survivors of sex trafficking, law enforcement organizations, and those working in the justice system,”
said Assemblymember Mia Bonta.
“Sadly, the first time many survivors of trafficking first engage with the government, they are seen as offenders of prostitution or other crimes. Establishing proper protocols for law enforcement interactions with survivors will allow California to combat human trafficking while centering the needs of survivors and advancing trauma-informed justice practices.”
Human trafficking is a persistent issue nationally:
In 2021, the
National Human Trafficking Hotline
received 51,073 contacts about human trafficking and issues related to human trafficking across the United States.
For California, the hotline received 5,257 contacts. Of those contacts, 1,334 human trafficking cases were identified with 2,122 victims involved in those cases.
Human trafficking victims are commonly treated as perpetrators of crime by law enforcement:
According to
a 2023 National Survivor Study
, 62% percent of survivors reported being cited, detained, or arrested by law enforcement.
Most of those survivors arrested were arrested, detained, or cited during their trafficking situation.
A majority of those surveyed indicated that all or at least some of their criminal record was related to their trafficking victimization.
“AB 2020 is a commonsense, smart solution that advances the health, safety, and well-being of victims of human trafficking,”
said Natasha Minsker, Policy Advisor for Smart Justice California.
“We thank Assemblymember Bonta for her unwavering commitment to ensuring that law enforcement agencies’ interactions with victims who are seeking safety are trauma-informed and based on best practices.”
“As an organization of prosecutors and victim advocates, Prosecutors Alliance Action is grateful that Governor Newsom signed Assemblymember Mia Bonta’s bill to help survivors of sexual violence and sex trafficking, improve community care of survivors, and train law enforcement officers to better serve and protect people who have survived sex trafficking,”
said Cristine Soto DeBerry, Executive Director of Prosecutors Alliance Action.
“It’s practical and
compassionate — the kind of policy California needs right now."
"California takes human trafficking seriously, which is why we are glad to see AB 2020 signed into law today,"
said Barbara Chavez, Outside Policy Fellow for the Ella Baker Center for Human Rights.
"Survivors must be treated with dignity and respect while receiving the resources they need. We are grateful to Asm. Bonta for finding smart solutions to support survivors with healing and justice."
“I have
been proud of my tenure in the legislature advancing criminal justice policies that provide real support to those who have been cast aside by our society for too long. AB 2020 will provide communities like those I represent with the opportunity to escape cycles of abuse, incarceration, and trafficking,”
added Assemblymember Mia Bonta.
AB 2020 goes into effect on January 1, 2025.
###
Assemblymember Mia Bonta
represents California’s 18
th
Assembly District encompassing the East Bay including Oakland, Alameda, and Emeryville. She also chairs the Assembly Health Committee.