SACRAMENTO, CA—
Today, Assemblywoman Esmeralda Soria announced her legislation related to nursing bachelor degrees and hospitals passed through their first policy committee.
Assemblywoman Soria’s priority continues to be improving and increasing access to healthcare in the Central Valley. It is often the underserved communities that she represents that suffer most. The bill package will address important hurdles healthcare in the Central Valley is currently facing.
AB 2104
authorizes the California Community Colleges to establish a pilot program to allow up to 15 community college districts to offer a Bachelor of Science in nursing degree.
This bill will expand the access and affordability of these degrees in our local communities.
“The shortage of nurses in California is hurting our most vulnerable communities, many in the Central Valley,”
said Assemblywoman Soria.
“Expanding access to nursing training programs is necessary to tackle this workforce challenge. AB 2104 will grow our nursing workforce in areas of the state most in need and help us better serve our communities.”
“The significance of AB 2104 advancing through the Higher Education Committee cannot be understated, as expanding the pipeline to meet California's demand for qualified nurses is imperative,”
said Chancellor Dr. Carole Goldsmith, State Center Community College District.
“Assemblymember Esmeralda Soria's leadership in introducing legislation allowing community colleges to offer Bachelor of Science in Nursing degrees is crucial in addressing California's nursing shortage. With recent hospital closures in Madera County and elsewhere, it’s imperative that we act now.
Community Colleges have world-class, highly-respected faculty ready to assist in educating the next generation of nurses to address California's healthcare crisis. This bill creates another path for our community colleges and our students to help our communities.
This initiative not only expands educational opportunities, but also enhances diversity in the nursing profession, benefiting underserved communities like the San Joaquin Valley. Without courageous action, the nursing shortage could worsen, limiting access to needed healthcare and compromising lives.
We are proud to support Assemblymember Soria in her legislative quest to make this bill a reality. I’m proud of the State Center Community College District Board of Trustees who firmly support expanding educational opportunities and improved healthcare outcomes for all Californians,”
shares Chancellor Dr. Carole Goldsmith in support of AB 2104.
AB 2104
passes
the Assembly Higher Education Committee.
It now heads to the Assembly Appropriations Committee.
---
AB 3275
is authored by Assemblywoman Soria and Assembly Speaker Robert Rivas.
It requires a health plan or health insurer, including Medi-Cal managed care plans, to reimburse an uncontested claim within 10 business days, that is submitted by a small and rural, critical access or distressed hospital provider.
AB 3275 also requires the Department of Managed Health Care (DMHC) to develop a list of categories of claims to be paid no later than five days after receipt of the claim, so long as the provider can document that care was provided.
“AB 3275 will ensure prompt payments to small and rural, critical access and distressed hospitals while strengthening their financial stability”
said Assemblywoman Soria.
“With the closure of Madera Community Hospital, we saw this as one of the issues that emerged. It must be addressed with urgency and action.
This group of hospitals serves a large percentage of Medi-Cal and Medicare patients and reply on timely payments to operate efficiently and reduce financial vulnerability. To these providers, in the battle to remain open, every penny counts.”
“One of the most critical challenges Madera Community Hospital faced prior to closure was reimbursement of healthcare claims”
said Karen
Paolinelli, CEO of Madera Community Hospital.
“I applaud Assemblywoman Soria’s leadership to ensure this category of hospitals receive prompt payment of claims.”
AB 3275
passes
the Assembly Health Committee.
It now heads to the Assembly Appropriations Committee.
###
Assemblywoman Esmeralda Soria represents the 27th Assembly District which includes communities in Fresno, Madera, and Merced counties.