SACRAMENTO, CA
— Assembly Democratic Caucus Chair Rick Chavez Zbur (D-Hollywood) has announced that AB 2943, the California Retail Theft Reduction Act, has passed the Assembly with no "No" votes, and advances to the Senate. AB 2943, jointly authored with Speaker of the Assembly Robert Rivas (D-Salinas) is a primary component of the
Californians Against Retail Theft bipartisan bill package
, which includes six additional bills that have also advanced to the Senate.
"We know that retail crime is an emotional issue for many of our constituents. Business owners fear for their livelihoods, workers fear for their wellbeing, and members of the public worry it may no longer be safe or convenient to frequent their neighborhood stores," said Assemblymember Rick Chavez Zbur. "In developing these proposals, we have worked hand in hand with the Speaker's office, the Governor's office, the Public Safety Committee, and key stakeholders - including retailers, workers, criminal justice reform advocates, and law enforcement - to find effective solutions to address retail crime, while preserving reforms that have kept our communities safe. I believe the California Retail Theft Reduction Act achieves this goal, and I am grateful for the strong leadership of Assembly Speaker Rivas, Governor Newsom, the Assembly Select Committee on Retail Theft, and all stakeholders for their dedication and engagement."
Key Elements of the California Retail Theft Reduction Act
Places great emphasis on stopping organized crime rings by creating a new crime targeting "serial" retail thieves, advancing key recommendations released by Governor Newsom's office.
Specifically defines how the value of thefts from different victims can be aggregated to charge grand theft, clarifying the law that the intent standard can be met by evidence that the acts involve the same defendants, are substantially similar, and occur within a 90-day period.
Expands the tools for police to make arrests for shoplifting using videotape evidence and sworn statements.
Protects businesses from having nuisance actions brought against them for simply reporting legitimate retail crime incidents.
Addresses the root cause of theft by expanding the use of diversion and rehabilitative programs, offering the opportunity for early discharge if the program is complete.
AB 2943 now moves to the California State Senate, where it will be heard in the coming weeks.
Assemblymember Rick Chavez Zbur serves as the Democratic Caucus Chair for the California State Assembly and represents the 51st Assembly District, which includes Universal City, Hollywood, Hancock Park, West Hollywood, Beverly Hills, Westwood, West Los Angeles, Santa Monica, and other portions of Los Angeles.
CONTACT:
Vienna Montague, (916) 319-2051, Vienna.Montague@asm.ca.gov