(SACRAMENTO, CA) –
Today, the Support Academic Futures & Educators for Today’s Youth
(SAFETY) Act
was signed into law, further solidifying California's commitment to providing a safe and supportive learning environment for all students regardless of gender identity. This life-saving legislation,
AB 1955
, introduced by Assemblymember Chris Ward (D-San Diego) and the California Legislative LGBTQ Caucus, came in response to policies in several school districts that have sought to forcibly out students.
"Politically motivated attacks on the rights, safety, and dignity of transgender, nonbinary, and other LGBTQ+ youth are on the rise nationwide, including in California,"
said Assemblymember Ward.
"While some school districts have adopted policies to forcibly out students, the SAFETY Act ensures that discussions about gender identity remain a private matter within the family. As a parent, I urge all parents to talk to their children, listen to them, and love them unconditionally for who they are."
Since 2023, over a dozen school districts have proposed or implemented policies requiring teachers to inform parents if their child identifies as transgender or requests to be identified by a different name or pronouns at school.
These policies have significantly impacted the mental health of LGBTQ+ students
,
and can lead to instances of bullying, harassment, and discrimination.
The SAFETY Act
addresses these issues by:
Prohibiting school districts from enacting forced outing policies.
Providing resources for parents and students to manage conversations about gender and identity privately.
Protecting teachers and school staff from retaliation if they refuse to forcibly out a student.
Since 2020, eight states have enacted laws mandating school staff to forcibly out transgender students,
while five others have passed legislation encouraging such actions.
California is the first state to explicitly prohibit forced outing policies in schools.
Despite homes not always being safe for transgender youth, schools should be a sanctuary.
According to a 2024 Trevor Project survey,
less than 40% of transgender and nonbinary youth find their homes to be LGBTQ-affirming. Conversely, more than half of transgender and nonbinary young people reported that their schools are gender-affirming, which correlates with lower suicide attempt rates.
The SAFETY Act
is a significant step forward in ensuring that all students, regardless of their gender identity, have a supportive and safe environment to learn and grow.
“Today is a great day for California,”
said California Legislative LGBTQ Caucus Chair Susan Eggman.
“With the Governor’s signature on AB 1955, a first in the nation policy, reaffirms California’s position as a leader and safe haven for LGBTQ+ youth everywhere. I am incredibly proud of our LGBTQ Caucus, and Assemblymember Ward in particular, for their leadership on this life-saving legislation. I am also deeply grateful for all the parents, teachers, youth, LGBTQ+ leaders, and so many other groups who came together to support this bill. Their support reaffirmed what this caucus already knew: Safe and supportive schools for all our children should be our top priority. And at the end of the day that’s what this bill does, ensures our K-12 campuses remain safe and affirming places for our youth no matter how they identify.”
WHAT OUR SUPPORTERS ARE SAYING:
"We applaud Governor Newsom's signing of the SAFETY Act, which significantly enhances existing protections for LGBTQ+ students in California,”
said Trans Family Support Services Executive Director Kathie Moehlig.
“This essential legislation safeguards against policies that forcibly out students, offers vital resources for families, and protects educators who foster inclusive environments. By preventing undue interventions in personal family matters, the SAFETY Act ensures private and consensual discussions between students and their parents. This bill is a crucial step toward making all California students feel safe and supported at school.”
“Today, with the signing of AB 1955, every student in California will hopefully feel safe and welcome in their classrooms,”
said CFT President Jeff Freitas.
“This is a major step in protecting the privacy of our students and keeping the focus of our educators on providing the best possible education that they can. We applaud the Governor and the Legislature for bringing this landmark legislation to fruition.”
“In California, LGBTQ+ students –– like all students –– have the right to a safe and welcoming school environment,”
said Becca Cramer-Mowder with ACLU California Action.
“With the Governor’s signature, our state becomes the first in the country to ensure protections against forced outing in school are clearly enshrined in statute. LGBTQ+ students and their families deserve to decide on their own terms when and how to have conversations about coming out."
“The SAFETY Act could not be more timely or necessary, and LGBTQ+ students across California can breathe a sigh of relief following the Governor’s action today,”
said Equality California Executive Director Tony Hoang.
“LGBTQ+ youth across California can now have these important family conversations when they are ready and in ways that strengthen the relationship between parent and child, not as a result of extremist politicians intruding into the parent-child relationship. We are grateful to Governor Newsom for demonstrating his unwavering commitment to the LGBTQ+ community, for the leadership of Assemblymember Chris Ward and the Legislative LGBTQ Caucus for spearheading this legislation, and to the diverse coalition of local, state, and national partners that supported this effort.”
“This historic legislation will strengthen existing protections against forced outing and allow educators to continue to create a safe learning environment where all students feel accepted, nurtured, and encouraged to pursue their dreams,”
said California Teachers Association President David Goldberg.
“As educators, we are charged with providing a high-quality education to every student. No educator should experience retaliation or have their livelihood jeopardized for following the law and providing safe and supportive learning environments for our students. The Governor signing the SAFETY Act is a great step forward for our schools and communities. The 310,000 educators of the California Teachers Association will continue to fight for our students and focus on doing important work in our classrooms and schools.”
“Planned Parenthood Affiliates of California (PPAC) is proud to see Assembly Bill 1955 signed into law to ensure inclusive school environments where students feel safe to be themselves is the standard in California, not the exception,”
said PPAC President and CEO Jodi Hicks.
“We know the same extremists who attack reproductive health care are also intent on restricting the right of LGBTQ+ students to feel safe and supported at school as they learn and grow. Planned Parenthood in California will continue to stand alongside LGBTQ+ youth and advocates and continue to fight for their fundamental rights to privacy and bodily autonomy, no matter what.”