SACRAMENTO, CA—
Today, Assemblywoman Esmeralda Soria announced her legislation to expand access to nursing bachelor degrees passed the Senate Education Committee.
AB 2104
authorizes the California Community Colleges to establish a pilot program to allow up to 10 community college districts to offer a Bachelor of Science in Nursing (BSN) degree.
Assemblywoman Soria’s priority continues to be improving and increasing access to healthcare in the Central Valley.
AB 2104
was introduced in response to the nursing shortage in the Central Valley which contributed to the closure of Madera Community Hospital.
“The shortage of nurses in California is hurting our most vulnerable communities, many in the Central Valley,”
said Assemblywoman Soria.
“Expanding access to nursing training programs is necessary to tackle this workforce challenge.
AB 2104
will create a pipeline that will train local talent with the cultural and linguistic backgrounds needed to properly serve the unique communities I represent and serve.”
“The significance of
AB 2104
advancing through the Senate Education Committee cannot be understated, as expanding the pipeline to meet California's demand for qualified nurses is imperative,”
said Chancellor Dr. Carole Goldsmith, State Center Community College District.
“Assemblymember Esmeralda Soria's leadership in introducing legislation allowing community colleges to offer Bachelor of Science in Nursing degrees is crucial in addressing California's nursing shortage. With recent hospital closures in Madera County and elsewhere, it’s imperative that we act now.
Community Colleges have world-class, highly-respected faculty ready to assist in educating the next generation of nurses to address California's healthcare crisis. This bill creates another path for our community colleges and our students to help our communities.
This initiative not only expands educational opportunities, but also enhances diversity in the nursing profession, benefiting underserved communities like the San Joaquin Valley. Without courageous action, the nursing shortage could worsen, limiting access to needed healthcare and compromising lives.
We are proud to support Assemblymember Soria in her legislative quest to make this bill a reality. I’m proud of the State Center Community College District Board of Trustees who firmly support expanding educational opportunities and improved healthcare outcomes for all Californians.”
AB 2104
passed the Senate Education Committee with bipartisan support. It now heads to the Senate Appropriations Committee.
###