[Sacramento, CA]
– – On Sunday, Governor Gavin Newsom signed SB 1053 into law, legislation coauthored by Senator Catherine Blakespear (D-Encinitas) and Assemblymember Rebecca Bauer-Kahan (D-Orinda), marking a significant step toward reducing plastic pollution in California. The bill bans the distribution of plastic bags at grocery store checkouts, closing a loophole that had allowed thicker plastic bags to continue being offered despite an original ban on single-use plastic bags.
“We deserve a cleaner future for our communities, our children and our earth,” said
Assemblymember Bauer-Kahan
. “It’s time for us to get rid of these plastic bags and continue to move forward with a more pollution-free environment.”
SB 1053
, which was authored by Senator Blakespear, honors the intent of California’s original plastic bag ban from 2014, which allowed stores to sell reusable, thicker plastic bags at checkout. However, many of these bags are neither reused nor recycled, contributing to increasing amounts of plastic waste in California’s landfills and oceans.
Assemblymember Bauer-Kahan authored a companion bill,
AB 2236
, which aimed to eliminate plastic bags from grocery stores entirely. By pushing identical bills through both houses of the Legislature, the two lawmakers built momentum for this crucial policy change. The Legislature ultimately sent
SB 1053
to Governor Newsom, who signed the bill into law.
“I thank Governor Newsom for signing this important legislation that will help protect California’s environment,”
said Senator Blakespear
. “Instead of being asked do you want paper or plastic at checkout, consumers will simply be asked if they want a paper bag, if they haven’t brought a reusable bag. This straightforward approach is easy to follow and will help dramatically reduce plastic bag pollution.”
Plastic bags are one of the most common types of litter found in California’s waterways, parks, and communities. According to the United Nations Environment Program, up to five trillion plastic bags are used worldwide every year. California’s 2014 bag ban made significant progress, but the loophole allowing thicker plastic bags has worsened the problem. While plastic bags are used for an average of just 12 minutes before being discarded, their environmental impact can last for centuries. SB 1053 addresses this issue by closing the loophole, preventing further pollution and helping to protect California's environment for future generations. Under the new law, stores will only be able to offer recycled paper bags or reusable bags brought by consumers.
SB 1053
is supported by over 200 organizations, including Azul, Heal the Bay, Monterey Bay Aquarium, and Surfrider Foundation, all of whom have championed reducing plastic pollution in California.
Quotes from bill sponsors
“Plastic grocery bags have ranked in the top ten most commonly collected items by California Coastal Cleanup Day volunteers in seven of the last 10 years. Over that decade, volunteers have cleaned up enough plastic bags to span the length of the Golden Gate Bridge nearly 30 times. Plastic grocery bags are not only one of the most common plastics polluting our beaches, but also one of the top five deadliest forms of plastic pollution to marine life. But we have a simple solution that has been shown to reduce this type of plastic pollution: banning them. We thank Senator Blakespear, Assemblymember Bauer-Kahan, and Governor Newsom for working with advocates to make this bill a reality,”
said Ocean Conservancy’s Director of Plastics Policy Dr. Anja Brandon
•••
"Oceana applauds Senator Blakespear, Assemblywoman Bauer-Kahan, and Governor Newsom for safeguarding California’s coastline, marine life, and communities from single-use plastic grocery bags,” said
Christy Leavitt, Oceana’s plastics campaign director
. “The new ban on single-use plastic bags at grocery store checkouts solidifies California as a leader in tackling the global plastic pollution crisis. Plastic bags are one of the deadliest types of plastic to ocean wildlife. With an ocean-based economy valued at $45 billion annually, California is dependent on a clean coast. Not only is plastic tarnishing California’s beaches, but it’s in our food, air, water, and even our bodies. Our state and national elected leaders should continue to adopt new policies to stop plastic pollution at the source.”
•••
“Plastic bags create pollution in our environment and break into microplastics that contaminate our drinking water and threaten our health,”
said CALPIRG State Director Jenn Engstrom
. “Californians voted to ban plastic grocery bags in our state almost a decade ago, but the law clearly needed a redo. With the Governor’s signature, California has finally banned plastic bags in grocery checkout lanes once and for all.”
###