SOLANA BEACH, CA.
— To ensure students have all the materials needed for a successful school year,
Assemblymember Tasha Boerner
(D-Encinitas) and the
Boys and Girls Club
(BGC)
of Northwest San Diego
hosted a Backpack and School Supplies Giveaway and provided over 200 students with backpacks and school supplies.
“I know how hectic it can be to get our children back-to-school ready. I am currently making sure both of my children are ready for the new school year, and it can be stressful and expensive. While our parents and guardians are worrying about their students’ success, we want them to know that they can count on us for support. We want to alleviate any anxiety our parents and guardians may have, while also ensuring our students are prepared for the academic year,” stated
Assemblymember Boerner
. “I want to thank the Boys and Girls Club of Northwest San Diego and extend my appreciation to Cox Communications for their generous donation. Without them, this event would not be possible.”
“Since our merger to become Boys & Girls Club of Northwest San Diego (formerly BGC San Dieguito and BGC Oceanside) on July 1st, our reach has broadened, giving us the remarkable opportunity to serve more youth who need our after-school and summer services.  This Backpack and School Supplies Giveaway will significantly reduce the financial burden on our member families and bring smiles to kids’ faces as they prepare for the new school year! Making sure kids have the tools and resources to be successful is what we are all about, and we couldn’t achieve it without partnerships like this.  Thank you, Assemblymember Tasha Boerner, for your support of youth in the community,” stated
Marineke Vandervort
,
Chief Executive Officer of the Boys & Girls Clubs of Northwest San Diego
.
###
Assemblymember Tasha Boerner represents the 77th District, which encompasses Carlsbad, Encinitas, Solana Beach, Del Mar, Coronado and the coastal communities of La Jolla south to Downtown San Diego. You can learn more about Assemblymember Boerner at
a77.asmdc.org
,
Facebook
,
Instagram
, or
Twitter/X
.