SACRAMENTO
–
Yesterday, a bill by Assemblymember Mia Bonta (D – Oakland), AB 2041, to increase security opportunities for political candidates and elected officials, was signed into law by Governor Gavin Newsom. AB 2041 updates California's 30 year old candidate finance policies to make them better reflect the modern-day political climate. The bill received bi-partisan support as it traveled through the legislature earlier this year.
AB 2041 will:
Double the lifetime cap on security expenses from $5,000 to $10,000.
Extend eligibility for security expenses to include a
candidate's or elected official's family and staff.
“AB 2041 will protect candidates, elected officials, their families, and staff by authorizing personal security as a campaign expense and expanding eligibility for security,”
said Assemblymember Mia Bonta.
“I will never forget an instance of being on my front lawn and having somebody text me from an unknown number with a creepy note that they were watching me. Since being elected to the Assembly my staff, my family and I continue to be the target of threatening phone calls. This includes one individual hoping my children are kidnapped. Safety should never be something we sacrifice for the good of serving our community. I’m proud to have led this bill to make safety more accessible for those pursuing public service. ”
From
California Women’s List’s 2023 Report
:
Nearly two-thirds of women (65.38%) experienced harassment during their campaign, compared to 50% of men.
The data was even more stark for women of color–54.76% of whom experienced stalking at least once during their campaign (28.57% reporting experiencing stalking frequently or very frequently)– and LGBTQ+ women, 53.33% of whom experienced stalking during their campaign.
“In just the past five years, I've witnessed concern for personal safety become one of the top factors that actively deter talented women from running for office. That's to California's detriment. When you consider that women candidates experience greater severity of threats and harassment than their male counterparts-- women of color especially, and Black women candidates most egregiously-- you understand why we need trailblazing legislation like Assemblymember Bonta's AB 2041 in order to foster the conditions necessary to truly achieve reflective representation,”
said Susannah Delano, Executive Director, Close the Gap CA.
“Innovative, responsive leadership like Assemblymember Bonta has demonstrated with AB 2041 is exactly what gives me hope that electing more brilliant women who reflect California's diversity is the most direct route to revitalizing our democracy.”
“Stalking and harassment have become all too common in today's politics, especially for candidates who are female, LGBTQ+, and candidates of color. These tactics only serve to hurt our political process by intimidating wonderful potential candidates out of participating in our political system,”
said Assemblymember Mia Bonta.
“I'm grateful to Governor Newsom for signing this bill and joining the inclusive and bi-partisan coalition prioritizing safety and an end to political violence.”
AB 2041 follows a similar effort from Bonta, which was vetoed last year. As part of Assemblymember Bonta’s ongoing commitment to making our democracy to all, she reworked the bill through the legislature again this year, where it received bi-partisan support.
AB 2041 goes into effect immediately.
###
Assemblymember Mia Bonta
represents California’s 18
th
Assembly District encompassing the East Bay including Oakland, Alameda, and Emeryville. She also chairs the Assembly Health Committee.