Sacramento, CA-
Celeste Rodriguez was officially sworn in today as the State Assemblymember for California’s 43rd Assembly District, which includes the City of San Fernando and communities across the Northeast San Fernando Valley, including Arleta, Sun Valley, Sylmar, Pacoima, Panorama City, North Hollywood, Valley Glen, Lake View Terrace, Mission Hills and North Hills.
Raised by parents who instilled in her the values of social justice, Assemblymember Rodriguez has dedicated her career to empowering families and building stronger communities. Rodriguez’s professional work has focused on lifting families out of poverty. As part of the LA Mayor’s Homelessness Services Team, she addressed homelessness prevention and expanded access to critical resources. Later, as Deputy Director of Community Development Strategies, she led efforts to provide support services and economic development opportunities throughout the city. Celeste also oversaw the development and implementation of financial empowerment and poverty alleviation initiatives at the Community Investment for Families Department including LA's Guaranteed Basic Income pilot and Free Child Savings Accounts, which help families save for college. She was responsible for the Family Source Center System and Survivor Services, networks of nonprofits that support the city's most vulnerable families with emergency services, stability assistance, and generational wealth building.
Elected to the San Fernando City Council in 2020 and later serving as Mayor from 2022 to 2024, Rodriguez championed policies for public engagement, economic development, supportive services and homelessness prevention. As Mayor, she led the City of San Fernando to accomplishing the City’s Strategic Goals to improve city services, cultivate a stronger local economy, preserve beautiful homes and neighborhoods, strengthen climate resilience and environmental justice, enhance public transportation to San Fernando, build resilient and reliable infrastructure, forge financial strength and stability and emergency preparedness supporting the community.
As Assemblymember, Celeste will work to create meaningful, long-lasting solutions that lead to better futures for all Californians. Through robust community engagement with her constituents throughout the NE Valley, she has identified economic growth, education, housing affordability, and combating climate change as priorities for Assembly District 43.
Assemblymember Rodriguez attended LA Mission College, earned an Associate's Degree in Business Administration, a Bachelor’s in Economics from San Diego State University, and a Master’s degree in Social Work from the University of Southern California