SAN FRANCISCO
- Hollywood actor and cannabis entrepreneur Whoopi Goldberg called on Governor Gavin Newsom to sign into law Assemblymember Matt Haney’s bill, AB 1775, which would allow licensed cannabis retailers to diversify their businesses to boost California’s legal cannabis industry.
“It’s been tough because we’re always competing against the illegal markets who don’t contribute anything to the economy,” said Goldberg in a
recorded video
. “California should lead on this because everybody else is trying to figure out what to do, and they’re following your lead.”
Ms. Goldberg entered the cannabis industry in 2016 with the launch of a medical cannabis brand to help people seeking relief from menstrual cramps. In 2021, she launched a new line of cannabis products.
“I am asking you, as a person who is a part of the cannabis world in California, we need your help,” Ms. Goldberg pleads to Governor Newsom. “Keep money from flowing out of California.”
In a press conference at The Woods, a West Hollywood cannabis lounge owned by Woody Harrelson on September 6, Assemblymember Haney addressed the State’s restrictions on cannabis lounges that his bill would lift.
“There are cannabis lounges that exist all over the state, and right now, they’re being prohibited in an arbitrary, misguided way from being able to serve any food or non-alcoholic beverages,” said Assemblymember Haney. “And because of that, they’re prohibited from diversifying their business.”
A previous version of the bill, AB 374, was vetoed last year by Governor Newsom, who urged in his veto message to reintroduce the bill to include more protections for cannabis workers. This year, Assemblymember Haney reintroduced the bill with the support of the United Commercial and Food Workers to ensure cannabis lounge workers are protected from secondhand smoke impacts at work.
“Lots of people want to enjoy legal cannabis in the company of others,” said Haney, Chair of the Select Committee on Downtown Recovery. “And many people want to do that while sipping coffee, eating a scone, or listening to music. There’s absolutely no good reason from an economic, health or safety standpoint that the state should make that illegal. If an authorized cannabis retail store wants to also sell a cup of coffee and a sandwich, we should allow cities to make that possible and stop holding back these small businesses.”
AB 1775 received bipartisan support in both houses of the Legislature, and now sits on the Governor’s desk awaiting a signature.
####