SACRAMENTO
– As part of the California Legislature commemoration ceremony of Holocaust Remembrance Day – or Yom HaShoah – this week, Assemblymember Dawn Addis (D-Morro Bay) recognized Monterey County District 5 Supervisor-Elect Kate Daniels, granddaughter of Holocaust survivor Renate Ricci Abelmann.
"Like so many in this chamber, Renate's granddaughter Kate has taken the generational wounds of the Holocaust and made change." Addis said of the legislative ceremony. "As we commemorate Yom HaShoah may we remember the 6 million Jews whose lives were taken and also celebrate and honor the strength, resilience, and love of those who survived."
"My grandmother Renate Abelmann Ricci grew up in Frankfurt, Germany, an advanced and modern society that devolved and unraveled around her when "othering" and hate got out of hand," said Daniels. "From my grandmother's story and the stories I learned from her small community of German Jewish refugees in Los Angeles, I was taught not only our human capacity for goodness and love but our capacity for unspeakable and horrible acts of hate.
"Yom HaShoah is an important day of remembrance because this crucial piece of history is often forgotten; as well, today many people in our country question whether histories like my grandmother's even exist. It was an honor to be recognized by Assemblymember Addis and members of the Jewish Caucus. My grandmother would have been surprised and proud."
Kate Daniels counts academic accomplishments from Sarah Lawrence College and Columbia University, and has recently been elected as Monterey County's 5th District Supervisor. This week, she was recognized on the floor of the California State Assembly during its commemoration ceremony of Holocaust Remembrance Day.
Pictured: Assemblymember Dawn Addis (D-Morro Bay) with honoree Kate Daniels and former Assemblymember Jose Medina (D-Riverside)
Dawn Addis was elected to the California State Assembly in 2022 to represent the coastal 30th Assembly District, which includes San Luis Obispo, Monterey and Santa Cruz Counties.
CONTACT:
Julie Cravotto, (916) 319-2030