Hayward, CA
– With St. Rose Hospital (SRH), Hayward and southern Alameda County’s only emergency room and labor and delivery facility, facing imminent closure, Assemblymember Liz Ortega (D-San Leandro), Supervisor Elisa Marquez (D-Hayward, Tri-Cities), and Senator Aisha Wahab (D-Silicon Valley) led a coalition of healthcare workers, patients, and other community leaders, in holding a press conference to urge Governor Gavin Newsom to sign AB 2271, a bill that would keep the crucial safety net hospital open.
“When I experienced a stroke, I was lucky to make it to St. Rose in time to receive proper care since I live close to the hospital,” said St. Rose patient Ruth Martinez. “Thanks to the amazing staff there, I am alive and healthy today.”
“St. Rose is more than just a building: it’s a lifeline,” said Assemblymember Liz Ortega. “I recently had an emergency surgery and was able to get to an ER just ten minutes from my house. That experience drove home to me the absolute necessity of having an emergency room close to home. Last year, St. Rose had more than 28,000 Emergency Room visits. If it closes, every one of those patients will have to drive as much as 40 miles during a medical emergency. And we all know that in an emergency, minutes can mean lives.”
SRH is a safety net hospital serving mostly low-income patient populations in Hayward and surrounding communities; but is in significant financial distress and facing imminent closure. Asm. Ortega’s bill AB 2271, (which is co-authored by Sen. Wahab,) would provide financial support for the hospital to be acquired by Alameda Health System so that it can remain open. The bill has passed the legislature and is awaiting the Governor’s signature.
“St. Rose Hospital was there for me when my family needed a safety net provider more than ever, especially in our own community,” said Aaron Horner, Outreach Director of Vision/Development for First Presbyterian in Hayward. “Despite limited resources and a quick labor, my daughter arrived healthy and my wife remained safe because of St. Rose’s ER and their incredible labor and delivery team.”
“As a daughter of an immigrant family growing up in South Hayward, I know firsthand that St. Rose Hospital is essential community infrastructure, ensuring every patient, regardless of income, receives high quality, dignified health care,” said Alameda County Supervisor Elisa Márquez. “I am grateful for our regional coalition who share my values and determination to protect southern Alameda County’s only safety-net provider with emergency and maternal health services. We urge Governor Newsom to sign Assembly Bill 2271, support St. Rose’s affiliation pathway with Alameda Health System, and strengthen healthcare access and equity for all.”
“As an emergency room physician, my entire career has been dedicated to providing care for underserved communities, and St. Rose Hospital is a cornerstone of that mission,” said Dr. Jessica Orozco, an emergency room doctor at St. Rose. “This hospital isn’t just a facility; it’s a vital resource for patients who often have nowhere else to turn. Closing St. Rose would leave a devastating gap in care for our most vulnerable populations. We must do everything we can to keep its doors open and continue serving those in need.”
“At the end of the day, the mission of St. Rose is to serve everyone regardless of their ability to pay.” said Hayward Mayor Mark Salinas. “If St. Rose were to close, the more than 160,000 residents of Hayward would be left without a safety net hospital or an emergency room. We can’t let that happen. We need to keep it open.”
In 2023, SRH treated more than 40,000 patients, with over 70% of those treated relying on Medi-Cal. St. Rose Hospital operates 171 acute care beds, and employs more than 800 local residents. In April, SRH and Alameda Health System entered into exclusive negotiations to acquire the hospital and put it on a path to stability. AB 2271 would provide financial support to make that deal possible by forgiving $17.65 million in debt, which SRH owes to the state through the Distressed Hospital Loan Program. The bill was passed by the legislature in August. The Governor has until Sept. 31st to sign it into law.
Livestream:
a20.asmdc.org/
or
facebook.com/events/840544547872535/
###
Assemblymember Liz Ortega is Chair of the Assembly Committee on Labor & Employment and sits on the Assembly Committees on Budget, Insurance, Human Services and Privacy and Consumer Protection. She represents the 20th Assembly District, encompassing all or a portion of the cities of Hayward, San Leandro, Union City, Dublin, Pleasanton and the unincorporated areas of Ashland, Cherryland, Fairview, San Lorenzo, and Castro Valley.
###