Sacramento, CA –
On June 5, Assemblymember Calderon (D – Whittier) recognized Alma Family Services as the California Association of Nonprofits (CalNonprofits) 56
th
Assembly District 2024 California Nonprofit of the Year.
“Nonprofits serve as the cornerstone of our communities, bridging families to essential healthcare and social programs. Alma Family Services’ commitment to deliver vital mental health resources to Los Angeles County residents epitomizes compassion and community support,” stated
Assemblymember Lisa Calderon
. ”I commend Alma Family Services for fostering wellness, stability, and self-sufficiency in our community, and I am honored to celebrate their invaluable contributions to the well-being of my constituents.“
Alma Family Services is a beacon of hope for countless individuals and families, offering a variety of programs and services aimed at addressing mental health needs, substance abuse, domestic violence, parenting support, and youth development. They actively engage with communities to provide culturally competent and linguistically appropriate services, ensuring that individuals from diverse backgrounds receive the support they need.
“Nonprofit organizations touch the lives of millions of Californians in ways that can often go unrecognized. From the childcare program to the soccer team, from the art class to the health clinic, and from the community organizer to the animal shelter – nonprofits improve the lives of all Californians and make our communities stronger,” said
Geoff Green, CEO of the California Association of Nonprofits
. “Nonprofits are also a key economic driver in our state, accounting for 1 in 14 jobs. It’s important to recognize all they do.”
The Nonprofit of the Year program is sponsored by CalNonprofits in partnership with the state Senate and Assembly Select Committees on the Nonprofit Sector. CalNonprofits, the leading policy voice for California’s nonprofit sector, focuses on advocacy, education, and research to build a more powerful and politically engaged nonprofit network across the state.
Learn more about Alma Family Services by visiting their website,
HERE
.