SAN LUIS OBISPO —
Assemblymember Dawn Addis (D-Morro Bay) honored Khouloud Pearson, President of the Board of Director of the San Luis Obispo Legal Assistance Foundation, as a 2024 Woman of the Year for the thirtieth Assembly District last week.
Pearson leads the San Luis Obispo Legal Assistance foundation, a nonprofit that provides legal aid in civil and family law matters to seniors, veterans, and low-income individuals and families of San Luis Obispo County.
"I am proud to honor Khouloud Pearson as one of Assembly District 30's Women of the Year. Khouloud embodies the spirit of service we need. From using her skills to provide legal aid for low-income residents to supporting her entire community through volunteer service, she is a true leader for San Luis Obispo County." Said Addis.
"Receiving the Woman of the Year award is not just an honor; it's a testament to the power of perseverance, collaboration, and unwavering belief in making a difference," Said Pearson "It inspires me to continue advocating and uplifting others. My hope is that this award serves as a reminder to young girls that their dreams are valid, and with determination and courage, they too can break barriers and shine."
In addition to her legal advocacy, Pearson plays a vital role as Director of the Templeton Special Services District, where she oversees policies and budgets for essential public services, including utilities and Fire Department. Pearson is also an active volunteer at Templeton Elementary School and a member of both the San Luis Obispo Bar Association and the Women in Law Association.
Khouloud Pearson is one of seven distinguished diverse women across Assembly District 30 receiving recognition for their contributions to the region.
Dawn Addis is the Assistant Majority Leader for Policy and Research and the Chair of the California Central Coast Legislative Caucus. She was elected to the California State Assembly in 2022 to represent the coastal 30th Assembly District, which includes San Luis Obispo, Monterey and Santa Cruz Counties.
CONTACT:
Alexis Garcia-Arrazola, (831) 649-2832