SACRAMENTO, CA
– Assemblymember Gail Pellerin (D-Santa Cruz) passes ACR 125 off the Assembly Floor on a voice vote to declare January Human Trafficking Awareness Month.
Earlier this morning, Assemblymember Gail Pellerin was joined by Senator Shannon Grove and Assemblymember Carlos Villapudua for a press conference proclaiming January as National Human Trafficking Awareness Month via SCR 97 and ACR 125. Members were joined by local organizations, law enforcement groups and the trucking community to show support for combating this heinous practice via increased publicity, training, and response opportunities available to all Californians. Event participants include Rising Worldwide, 3Strands Global Foundation, Jenna McKaye Foundation, California Trucking Association, San Joaquin County District Attorney’s Office, and the California Highway Patrol.
“Unfortunately, oftentimes, those who are being trafficked are often afraid to come forward to get help, because they may be threatened with violence and fear retribution. That is why, when talking about solutions to human trafficking, we must ensure that we are centering those with lived experience. Here in California, we remain committed to partnering with and learning from survivors and the wonderful nonprofit advocacy groups giving insight to policy solutions. I am proud to author ACR 125 to declare January Human Trafficking Awareness Month,” Assemblymember Gail Pellerin(D- Santa Cruz), said.
“I'd like to thank California Assemblymember Gail Pellerin for working with lived experience experts to help craft the human trafficking resolution. It is imperative that we continue to incorporate a diverse group of experience within these dialogs so that we are meaningfully engaging survivors to address all of the harms inflicted upon them,” Jess Torres, Survivor Leader with Rising Worldwide, stated.
###
Assemblymember Pellerin represents the 28th Assembly District, which includes Santa Cruz County and Santa Clara County. In Santa Cruz County, the District includes the North Coast communities of Davenport, Bonny Doon and Swanton, the cities of Scotts Valley and Santa Cruz, the San Lorenzo Valley, and portions of Soquel, Aptos, and Corralitos. In Santa Clara County, the District includes the Town of Los Gatos, cities of Monte Sereno and Morgan Hill, the communities of Lexington Hills, Willow Glen, Cambrian Village, Santa Teresa, the Almaden and Coyote valleys, and portions of Campbell, Gilroy, San Martin, Saratoga, South San Jose.