SACRAMENTO - In an effort to address the critical housing needs of foster youth, Assemblywoman Pilar Schiavo today announced her bill, AB 2674, which encourages private sector investment in affordable housing with units specifically for foster youth and low-income families.
"Access to stable, secure housing is a cornerstone of a healthy, productive life. Yet, foster youth face disproportionately high rates of homelessness and housing insecurity," said Assemblywoman Schiavo. "Current support programs are valuable, and yet still the lack of available housing for those with vouchers underscores the urgent need for innovative solutions. AB 2674 seeks to fill this gap by encouraging private financing for housing projects dedicated to foster youth."
The introduction of AB 2674 reflects Assemblywoman Schiavo's ongoing commitment to addressing housing security for all Californians, especially the communities most in need. Through this legislation, she continues to advocate for the well-being and future success of the state's most at-risk populations.
"Empowering private investment in affordable housing for foster youth is not just beneficial—it's essential. By ensuring our most vulnerable have a place to call home, we can make a significant impact on the lives of thousands of transitional age foster youth across California," said Assemblywoman Schiavo.
###
Assemblywoman Pilar Schiavo was elected to the California State Assembly in November of 2022 to represent the 40th Assembly District, representing the Northwest San Fernando Valley and the Santa Clarita Valley. Upon her election, she was appointed as Assistant Majority Whip by the Speaker of the Assembly and now serves as Chair of the Assembly Committee on Military and Veterans Affairs. Prior to her election, Assemblywoman Schiavo was a Nurse Advocate and Small Business Owner who worked in the labor movement for more than 20 years. Throughout her career, Assemblywoman Schiavo helped deliver healthcare, including reproductive healthcare, to more than one million people and fought to put critical dollars in the pockets of workers. In the Northwest San Fernando Valley, she co-founded an organization that helped secure housing for Veterans experiencing homelessness, co-founded an organization that delivered more than 50,000 meals to people in need, and increased resources to help keep our communities safe. Assemblywoman Schiavo lives in Chatsworth with her daughter Sofia where they love to hike in the Santa Susana Mountains.