SACRAMENTO, CA—
Today, Assemblywoman Esmeralda Soria introduced AB 2060 to help divert local floodwater into regional groundwater basins.
AB 2060 - Flood-MAR (Managed Aquifer Recharge)
AB 2060 seeks to streamline the permitting process to the California Department of Fish and Wildlife in support of Flood-MAR activities when a stream or river has reached flood-monitor or flood stage as determined by the California Nevada River Forecast Center or the State Water Resources Control Board (SWRCB).
This expedited approval process would be temporary during storm events with qualifying flows under the SWRCB permit.
AB 2060 has tremendous opportunity to help benefit groundwater recharge – especially for local government entities working to comply with the Sustainable Groundwater Management Act.
The bill is also directly aligned with the goals of the Governor’s August 2022 California Water Supply Strategy: Adapting to a Hotter, Drier Future. The strategy specifically calls for the streamlining of Flood-MAR groundwater recharge permitting. AB 2060 implements those recommendations and is supported by the Merced Irrigation District (MID).
“Merced Irrigation District has had an interest in groundwater essentially since its inception in the early 1900s. The District remains committed to healthy and sustainable groundwater levels with the enactment of the Sustainable Groundwater Management Act. This legislation will help MID’s ongoing efforts to advance local groundwater sustainability – and quality – for urban and agricultural users alike.” – Hicham Eltal, Merced Irrigation District Deputy General Manager of Rights and Supply
“California is experiencing strong storms right now. Storms that are pouring large amounts of water across the state. We have an opportunity to capture the heavy rains and apply the water over our agricultural lands and working landscapes while simultaneously boosting our groundwater levels,” said Assemblywoman Soria. “Groundwater is an important resource in our region, both for drinking and for agricultural irrigation. AB 2060 represents a common-sense step forward to both fighting floods and recharging our aquifer.”
###