RIVERSIDE, CA
— Assemblymember Dr. Corey A. Jackson, a representative of a part of the Riverside Unified School District, issued the following statement in response to recent calls for the resignation of Superintendent Renee Hill:
“I want to express my full confidence in Superintendent Renee Hill and her commitment to upholding California State Law. California law clearly prohibits discrimination of students based on gender, gender identity, and gender expression, including protections for students in physical education and athletics. Superintendent Hill’s actions align with these laws and with the principles of fairness, dignity, and humanity that we should all strive to uphold.
It is critical that we support and protect the dignity and humanity of transgender youth in our community. Students who identify as transgender deserve to be treated with respect and given the same opportunities to compete, learn, and grow alongside their peers without fear of discrimination.
It is not radical to ensure that students refrain from discriminating against each other. It is not radical to expect adults to act as positive role models for our students. As leaders, we have a responsibility to guide our community toward solutions, not fuel division and hate. Demonizing school administrators who are upholding the law only creates chaos and undermines our shared values of respect and inclusion. I call on the Riverside School Board to stand on the side of humanity and against the dark forces of politics. I refuse to believe that this is Riverside. History is watching.
I call on my colleagues, Assemblymember Bill Essayli and Assemblymember Leticia Castillo, to reconsider their approach. Fanning the flames of fear and resentment does not serve our children, our schools, or our community. Instead, we need bridge-builders — leaders who foster unity, understanding, and common ground.
Our students deserve better. All children, including transgender youth, deserve to feel safe, supported, and welcomed on their school campuses.”