SACRAMENTO, CA
– Assemblymember Stephanie Nguyen (D-Elk Grove) attended Attorney General Bonta’s press conference to speak on AB 3042 which ends the sunset funding date for the DNA Fingerprint, Unsolved Crime, and Innocence Protection Act. AB 3042 seeks to establish a permanent source of non-General Fund revenue to support DNA programs aimed at solving violent crimes and exonerating the innocent.
“It’s scary to know that someone who harmed you or your loved one is roaming free,” said Assemblymember Stephanie Nguyen. “In collaboration with Attorney General Bonta, I am proud to author AB 3042 to retain this key funding for DNA Crime Labs that absolve the innocent, hold criminals accountable, and ensure California’s critical tool continues to protect the public and secure justice.”
For nearly 20 years, this act has assisted law enforcement in solving cold cases, including heinous crimes of rape and murder. It has been instrumental in the success of the state’s DNA database program which will continue to solve crimes and make sure people who are wrongfully accused of a crime are exonerated and reestablish their standing in the community. By passing AB 3042, a stable source of revenue outside the General Fund will continue to support DNA testing programs at the local and state levels.
“I am very proud of the important work that is done in our Missing Persons DNA Program and our Bureau of Forensic Services,” said Attorney General Bonta. “While this milestone is not a celebration, it is important to take a moment to acknowledge what our team has accomplished in the process of bringing closure to the families that have been impacted by tragedy. Nothing can bring a loved one back, but we hope this helps them find peace. This program is just one of the essential services provided by our Bureau of Forensic Services. The Bureau receives crucial funding through Proposition 69, and AB 3024 would ensure that Proposition 69 remains in place to support our efforts to solve crime through forensic services. I want to thank Assemblymember Nguyen and our law enforcement partners for all their work toward this important goal.”
###
Assemblymember Stephanie Nguyen represents the Cities of Sacramento and Elk Grove