SACRAMENTO, CA –
Assemblymember Damon Connolly (D-San Rafael) has named Donna Garske, the recently retired Executive Director of the Center for Domestic Peace, as Assembly District (AD) 12’s Woman of the Year for 2024. Donna was chosen for her passion, dedication, and spirited advocacy through her work with domestic violence survivors and her tireless service to ending violence against women.
Donna contributed 44 years of service and leadership in ending gender-based violence in Marin County as the Executive Director at the Center for Domestic Peace, originally known as Marin Abused Women’s Services. Center for Domestic Peace provides resources for people experiencing domestic violence, including emergency shelter, transitional housing, support groups, legal advocacy, and counseling services.
“It has been the joy of my lifetime to be a part of such a powerful organization and social movement for change,” said Donna Garske. “I am honored by this recognition and wish to dedicate this award to all the survivors of domestic violence who inspired me decades ago to commit my career to seeking justice for them, and to end violence against women and children. Like many social movements, I believe in my heart it is possible to end gender-based violence with enough public will, expanded mobilization of our communities and a deepened commitment to the core values to safety, justice and equity. Thank you.”
“Center for Domestic Peace’s (C4DP) Board of Director is grateful to Assemblyman Damon Connolly for selecting Donna as Women of the Year 2024, District 12 Marin and Sonoma,” said Monica Gray, Board Co-Chair. “This recognition is befitting of Donna’s significant achievements as a leader in domestic violence advocacy and prevention in Marin, throughout the Bay Area, and at the state and national levels. Donna has touched so many lives and engaged so many advocates, leaders, and community members in her fearless pursuit of justice for all those impacted by domestic violence and through her passion for prevention. It is right and justice that we celebrate her. Congratulations, Donna!”
“It is my honor to recognize Donna Garske as the North Bay’s Woman of the Year,” said Assemblymember Connolly. “Donna’s dedication to domestic violence prevention, resources, and support has had a lasting impact on our community. Her passion for ending violence against women, girls, and people impacted by relationship abuse is inspiring, and she has impacted countless lives in the North Bay and beyond.”
Under Donna’s leadership, the Center for Domestic Peace has successfully pioneered a variety of programs, including a 24-hour hotline for violent men, a three-tiered preventative approach to domestic vi
olence, and the first transitional housing program in the country for domestic violence victims and their children. During her tenure, Center for Domestic Peace responded to the needs of more than 210,000 individuals affected by domestic violence, as well as more than 30,000 men that have been violent. Donna’s passion for preventing domestic violence has extended into the legislative realm, through her assistance in crafting the language for the Battered Women’s Protection Act, her role in co-founding the California Partnership to End Domestic Violence, and her service on President Clinton’s Violence Against Women Advisory Committee on social norm change and prevention. Donna Garske’s service has made a lasting difference, and our community is proud to celebrate her achievements.