SACRAMENTO, CA
- Today, legislation co-authored by Speaker Robert Rivas (D-Salinas) to protect California farmworkers’ access to housing was signed by Governor Gavin Newsom.
What Speaker Robert Rivas Says
“My mom and grandmother raised our family in farmworker housing while my grandfather labored in the fields. These are my roots, and it is why I will always fight for the health, safety and rights of every farmworker in California. Now, we have a plan to improve and expand access to affordable housing for migratory farmworkers and their families, and new options to keep their children in local schools. I thank Assembly members Arambula and Pellerin for their leadership on these bills, and Governor Newsom for signing them into law.”
What Governor Gavin Newsom Says
“Farmworkers are the backbone of California’s nation-leading agricultural industry and play a critical role in ensuring the stability of the state, nation and world’s food supply. Investing in their well-being is investing in California’s success. All families deserve access to safe and stable housing.”.
Two Bills That Expand Farmworker Access To Housing
Assembly Bill 2240
, authored by
Assemblymember Joaquin Arambula
(D-Fresno) makes it so families are not forced to leave farmworker housing centers due to outdated requirements. The bill requires the Department of Housing and Community Development to submit a report to the Legislature, which analyzes the feasibility and impact of transitioning housing units at Office of Migrant Services (OMS) centers to year round availability.
The bill also eliminates draconian requirements that prevent farmworkers and their families’ eligibility for housing. Under the current system, children and students are often forced to move from school to school, or in some cases have missed class for months at a time.
“I deeply appreciate that Governor Newsom has signed AB 2240 and that Speaker Rivas, as principal co-author, made this a priority. We know these changes will improve the lives of hard-working farmworkers and their families, and that this effort was always about giving them the dignity, respect, and protection that they have earned and deserve,” said
Assemblymember Joaquin Arambula
, who authored the legislation.
Assembly Bill 3035
, authored by
Assemblymember Gail Pellerin
(D- Santa Cruz) addresses the housing shortage faced by agricultural workers in Santa Clara and Santa Cruz counties by expanding site eligibility for agricultural employee housing developments, and increasing the number of units from 36 to 150. It also streamlines the development process for housing located within 15 miles of designated agricultural areas thereby transforming the living standards for all agricultural workers, expanding affordable housing and resources.
“I’m thankful to Governor Newsom for signing AB 3035 and to Speaker Rivas for spearheading the solution for agricultural housing in 2019. With AB 3035 approved, Santa Clara and Santa Cruz Counties will be able to develop the multifamily developments needed, with access to clean and safe drinking water and utility infrastructure, for our critical agricultural worker community,” said
Assemblymember Gail Pellerin
. “This is a big win for farmworkers who lack access to enough safe and affordable housing in Santa Clara and Santa Cruz Counties, which still need to develop hundreds of units to meet their needs for farmworkers.”
###
Speaker of the Assembly Robert Rivas represents California’s 29th Assembly District, which includes all of San Benito County and portions of Monterey, Santa Cruz, and Santa Clara Counties. For a full biography of Speaker Rivas, click
here