VALLEJO, CA
–
Assemblywoman Lori D. Wilson is proud to announce the 3rd Annual Operation Gobble Gobble Event, taking place on Saturday, November 23, 2024, from 12:00 PM to 2:00 PM at 900 Fairgrounds Drive in Vallejo. In collaboration with
Food is Free Bay Area
and
Center for Volunteer & Nonprofit Leadership (CVNL)
, this community event will distribute free frozen turkeys and Thanksgiving meals while supplies last, just in time to help local families prepare for the holiday season.
This event has quickly become a beloved tradition for residents, providing a meaningful way to give back and support those in need. Assemblywoman Wilson is dedicated to ensuring that no family goes without the essentials to celebrate a warm and comforting Thanksgiving meal. In past years, we have distributed approximately 1,500 turkeys to families in need, and we expect an even larger turnout this year.
"As we gather with loved ones for Thanksgiving, it is important to remember those in our community who may need a little extra help,"
said Assemblywoman Lori D. Wilson.
"I always look forward to this event because it truly embodies the spirit of giving and taking care of our neighbors. Together, we can ensure that everyone has the opportunity to enjoy a hearty Thanksgiving meal and experience the warmth of community support."
"Operation Gobble Gobble allows Food is Free Bay Area to provide the joy and security of a full holiday meal to the community,"
said Heather Pierini, Executive Director, Food is Free Bay Area.
"We always look forward to this amazing event and are proud of how our community comes together to support those most in need.  Participating in this event is the highlight of our year."
"This weekend is particularly exciting as we celebrate National Family Volunteer Day,"
said Rhonda Rochon Smith, Solano Volunteers Program Manager.
"What better way to give back to our community than by serving families during this Thanksgiving season? It offers a chance for all ages to come together and share in the spirit of giving. We are grateful for the opportunity to partner with the Assemblywoman’s Office in this meaningful endeavor."
Follow Assemblywoman Wilson on social media (
@asmloridwilson)
to stay updated on event details, logistics, and volunteer opportunities. Together, we can make this Thanksgiving season one of gratitude, compassion, and care for our neighbors in need.
For more information or if you'd like to cover this event, please contact:
Edgar Guerra, Communications Director
Office of Assemblywoman Lori D. Wilson
Phone: (916) 319-2011
Email:
edgar.guerra@asm.ca.gov
###
Assemblywoman Lori D. Wilson was elected in April 2022 to represent California’s 11th Assembly District which includes all of Solano County and portions of Contra Costa and Sacramento Counties. The District includes the Cities of: Benicia, Dixon, Fairfield, Oakley, Rio Vista, Suisun City, Vacaville and Vallejo.