Sacramento, CA
–Assemblymember Jessica Caloza took the oath of office today to represent California’s 52nd Assembly District, which is home to South Glendale, East Los Angeles, Northeast Los Angeles, and of course, the 2024 World Champions—the Dodgers.
“As an immigrant and the proud daughter of working-class parents, I’m deeply grateful for the outpouring of support,” said Assemblymember Caloza. “Thank you to the voters of Assembly District 52 for placing their trust in me. From East L.A. to Northeast L.A. to Glendale, I am committed to serving the needs of all our diverse communities. More importantly, I will work to deliver results for our most pressing issues—tackling the cost of living, building more affordable housing, creating good-paying jobs, protecting our environment, and investing in our public schools. As the first Filipina elected to the State Legislature, I'm honored to break this glass ceiling because women—especially women of color—belong in all spaces where decisions are being made, including at the Capitol.”
In 2019, Assemblymember Caloza was appointed as a Public Works Commissioner where she led infrastructure projects, expanded good-paying union jobs, raised wages for workers, and required equal pay for women while increasing transparency and accountability. She went on to serve as Deputy Chief of Staff to the Attorney General at the California Department of Justice, where she worked to reduce crime and gun violence, helped survivors of sexual assault receive justice, and taken bold action to protect the environment.
In the Assembly, she will prioritize reducing the cost of living, building more affordable housing, investing in public education, supporting small businesses, protecting a woman's right to choose, and ensuring California leads the nation and world in fighting the climate crisis.
Assemblymember Caloza is a proud product of public schools and is a graduate of UC San Diego. She is the first Filipina elected to the State Legislature and lives in Eagle Rock with her family.
# # #