$10 billion Statewide School Bond to be placed on November 2024 Ballot
Torrance, CA -
Today, the California State Legislature announced an agreement between the Assembly and Senate leadership on Assembly Bill (AB) 247, the Kindergarten through Grade 12 Schools and Local Community College Public Education Facilities Modernization, Repair, and Safety Bond Act of 2024. AB 247 will place a $10 billion bond proposal on the November 5, 2024 statewide ballot for the construction, modernization, and repair of California's K-12 schools and community college facilities. This bill is jointly authored by Assemblymembers Al Muratsuchi (D-Torrance), Mike Fong (D-Alhambra), and Lori Wilson (D-Suisun City), and Senators Steve Glazer (D-Contra Costa) and Josh Newman (D-Fullerton).
"California urgently needs a statewide school bond to repair dilapidated and unsafe school facilities and to invest in our children to meet 21st century educational and workforce needs," stated Assemblymember Al Muratsuchi (D-Torrance), Chair of the Assembly Education Committee. "California has not passed a statewide school bond since 2016, and we are running out of bond funds. In the meantime, most of our schools are over 50 years old, posing critical facility needs such as leaking roofs and unsafe structures, classrooms without internet access, lead pipes, outdated HVAC systems, shortage of transitional kindergarten and early childhood education facilities, and extreme heat conditions. This bond measure will provide state matching dollars to local K-12 school districts throughout the state, with locally identified school facility priorities and local taxpayer accountability. I thank Governor Newsom and legislative leaders in both houses of the Legislature for their work on this critically important measure. I look forward to working with California voters to pass the school bond this November."
"As Chair of the Assembly Higher Education Committee, I want to thank Speaker Robert Rivas, Pro Tem Mike McGuire, and my fellow joint-authors Assemblymembers Muratsuchi and Wilson for their commitment to improving school facilities throughout California. From our Kindergarten classrooms to our local Community Colleges, California's students deserve a safe learning environment," said Assemblymember Mike Fong (D-Alhambra).
"As a dedicated advocate for community development, I am proud to co-author AB 247, which reflects our unwavering commitment to ensuring equitable access to quality education for all students in California. This bond measure will provide critical funding to modernize, repair, and enhance the safety of our K-12 and community college facilities. By investing in our educational infrastructure, we are not only creating a better learning environment for our students but also building a stronger future for our communities." said Assemblywoman Lori D. Wilson (D-Suisun City).
Since 1998, voters have approved $54 billion in state bonds for K-12 and California's higher education institutions. The last successful bond for state school facilities, Proposition 51, was approved by voters in the November 2016 election. Proposition 51 provided $7 billion for K-12 and $2 billion for community college facilities.
AB 247 will be heard in the Senate Education Committee on July 1, 2024.
Assemblymember Al Muratsuchi represents California's 66th Assembly District, which includes El Segundo, Gardena, Hermosa Beach, Lomita, Los Angeles, Manhattan Beach, Palos Verdes Estates, Rancho Palos Verdes, Redondo Beach, Rolling Hills, Rolling Hills Estates, San Pedro and Torrance. Muratsuchi is Chair of the Assembly Education Committee, Chair of the Assembly Select Committee on Aerospace, and a member of the Committees on Budget, Budget Subcommittee on Education, Higher Education, Natural Resources, and the Joint Legislative Committee on Climate Change Policies.
CONTACT:
Kerry Jacob (Asm. Muratsuchi),
Kerry.Jacob@asm.ca.gov
Isabelle Grassel (Asm. Mike Fong),
Isabelle.Grassel@asm.ca.gov
Edgar Guerra (Asm. Wilson),
Edgar.Guerra@asm.ca.gov