For Release                                                                        Contact: Maria L. Lopez: 916-712-9854 (Cell)
July 25, 2024                                                                       E-mail:
maria.lopez@asm.ca.gov
Ramos comments on findings of his Prop 47 Inland Empire Audit
Auditor finds individuals with four or more convictions increased
SACRAMENTO—Assemblymember James C. Ramos (D-San Bernardino) reiterated his position today that the 2014 state proposition that changed sentencing in California needs attention after receiving
findings
from the state auditor today. Last year, Ramos requested the audit about the impact of Proposition 47 on San Bernardino and Riverside Counties.
“I want to begin by thanking the state auditor and his team for the thorough job they performed in completing a balanced audit that covered the Inland Empire. Based on the auditor’s finding, we clearly have a problem with repeat offenders, and the Legislature needs to address the issue.”
Assemblymember Avelino Valencia (D-Anaheim) “I extend my gratitude to Assemblymember Ramos for diligently pursuing the data necessary to inform our public safety decisions. The State Auditor’s report underscores the urgency of addressing repeat offenders with four or more convictions. I stand ready to explore recommendations provided by the State Auditor with the goal of keeping our communities safe and secure.”
Ramos, chair of Assembly Budget Subcommittee #6 that deals with public safety concerns, added that his regional request provides valuable information in improving how the Legislature deals with criminal classification and sentencing. He added, “As chair, I was proud to champion rehabilitative programs proven to reduce recidivism and improve the outcome of people leaving prison. I am eager to begin the work of reviewing the report with my colleagues and pursuing the auditor’s recommendations to the Legislature. Those recommendations dealt with sentencing for repeat offenders and how to further the work that led to reducing recidivism.”
###
Assemblymember James C. Ramos proudly represents the 45
th
Assembly district that includes the Cities of Fontana, Highland, Mentone, Redlands, Rialto and San Bernardino. He is the first and only California Native American serving in the state’s legislature. Ramos chairs the Assembly Budget Subcommittee #6 on Public Safety.