SAN BERNARDINO—
Dignitaries including
Assemblymember James C. Ramos (D-San Bernardino) and San Bernardino Superior Court Presiding Lisa M. Rogan of the San Bernardino Superior Court were joined today by dignitaries, tribal representatives, and cultural performers to celebrate California Native American Day.
Assistant Presiding Judge Rod Cortez and Court Executive Officer Anabel Romero attended the California Native American Day commemoration conducted a few days in advance of when the actual holiday occurs. The holiday, celebrated on the fourth Friday of September falls on September 27 this year, and the courts will be closed that day.
Ramos successfully introduced AB 855 in 2021 to grant state court employees the first-ever paid state holiday for any group of state employees on California Native American Day. The bill allowed California’s court staff, covered by a different state code than other state employees, to swap one paid holiday for another. Existing law in 2021 did include the fourth Friday in September as the Native American holiday, but it was not a paid holiday for state workers. SB 855
deleted the statutory exclusion of “the fourth Friday in September, known as “Native American Day” from the list of state holidays not recognized by the courts.
Ramos, a member of the Serrano/Cahuilla tribe, is the first and only California Native American lawmaker elected in the state’s 174-year history. He labored to enact a paid California Native American Day since 1998.
“I have been working on the idea securing a paid California Native American Day since 1998 when I served my tribe as a council member. I worked on this alongside then-Assemblymember Joe Baca Sr., to create a state holiday. This official commemoration is one more step forward in recognizing and building knowledge about the history, culture and contributions of California’s Native Americans,” Ramos stated.
Rogan said, “It is an honor for the San Bernardino Superior Court to host the California Native American Day press conference. This event is a powerful acknowledgment of the cultural contributions of Native American communities. We are proud to provide a platform to celebrate this day and to stand alongside those who have worked tirelessly to make California Native American Day a reality.”
Cultural performers included Ramos, Wayne Nelson the Intertribal Bird Singers, Tuolumne MeWuk Singers (Carlos Geisdorff, Carlos Merlin, Sal Diaz, Loren Forde, Jarrett Brunette), Thomas Stone of Bishop Paiute, James Ramos Jr. and Trevor Mathews.
Ramos observed that California has the greatest number of Native Americans residing within its boundaries. “It is important to educate others that we are still here as many saw today with the culture sharing that took place. These practices are not just of the past. Despite attempts to erase our culture, we have preserved our traditions. The performances shared today reflect the beauty and diversity of California’s First People whose ancestral lands span the state.”
The Judicial Council of California sponsored AB 855. Other supporters included the Morongo Band of Mission Indians, the San Manuel Band of Mission Indians, the Yocha Dehe Wintun Nation, the Tribal Alliance of Sovereign Indian Nations, California Tribal Business Alliance and the Nashville-Enterprise Miwok-Maidu-Nishinam Tribal Council.
###
Assemblymember James C. Ramos proudly represents the 45th Assembly district that includes the Cities of Fontana, Highland, Mentone, Redlands, Rialto and San Bernardino. He is the first and only California Native American serving in the state’s legislature. Ramos chairs the Budget Subcommittee No. 6 on Public Safety, the Select Committee on Native American Affairs, and the California Native American Legislative Caucus.