Sacramento, CA
–Today, Assemblymember Bauer-Kahan has introduced two bills to ensure that the legal right to an abortion translates to safe and abundant access for patients.
AB 2085
creates a more streamlined process for clinic development by creating limited zoning exemptions for clinic construction.
AB 2099
updates penalties for harassing and doxing abortion patients and providers.
“Abortion rights mean nothing without abortion access. Some communities in California are complete reproductive health care deserts, yet local anti-abortion groups are still creating roadblocks for clinic development, said
Assemblymember Bauer-Kahan (D-Orinda)
. “AB 2085 expands essential health care access to our state’s most vulnerable communities.”
Assemblymember Bauer-Kahan’s second reproductive rights bill, AB 2099, increases legal protections for patients and providers by increasing the penalties for harassment and violation of a patients or provider’s privacy.
“Since the overturning of
Roe v. Wade
, attacks and harassment at abortion clinics have only increased. Extremist groups can gravely endanger clinics by posting patient’s personal information online with barely any consequences. AB 2099 updates penalties to protect clinic’s provision of essential healthcare,” said
Assemblymember Bauer-Kahan (D-Orinda)
.
“Continued action to protect reproductive freedom and privacy is crucial as we deal with the impacts of a post-Dobbs reality where anti-abortion extremists across the country feel even more emboldened to create an atmosphere of fear and obstacles,”
said Molly Robson, Vice President of Government Affairs with Planned Parenthood Affiliates of California,
the bill’s sponsors
.
“AB 2085 and AB 2099 deliver on California’s commitment to ensure access to abortion and reproductive health care and will prohibit interference with a constitutionally protected right. Planned Parenthood is grateful to Assemblymember Bauer-Kahan for her steadfast commitment to these issues.”
These bills will ensure that access to reproductive health care is a safe and accessible reality all Californians.
###