SACRAMENTO, CA
—On the first day of the new legislative session, Assemblymember Rick Chavez Zbur (D-Hollywood) reintroduced the
Local Electrification Planning Act (AB 39)
. This key legislation, reintroduced with changes addressing input from key stakeholders, aims to ensure that local governments play an active role in California's transition to a clean energy future.
The bill requires cities and local jurisdictions with populations of 75,000 or more to adopt Climate Action Electrification Elements within their General Plans. These plans will outline strategies to meet local transportation and building electrification needs, ensuring equitable access to electric vehicle (EV) charging stations and building electrification for renters, multi-family housing residents, commercial fleets, visitors, and disadvantaged communities.
"Addressing the climate crisis requires an all-of-government approach," said
Assemblymember Zbur
. "This bill empowers local governments to lead in developing solutions that meet their communities’ unique needs while helping California achieve its ambitious electrification and climate goals. By including the voices of renters, multi-family housing residents, and low-income communities, we can ensure this transition benefits everyone—not just the wealthiest among us."
California is a global leader in setting ambitious climate goals, including a mandate for all new passenger vehicles sold to be zero-emission by 2035 and substantial building electrification efforts. To support these goals, the state must significantly expand its EV charging infrastructure and electrify residential and commercial buildings.
However, a patchwork of state and local initiatives has left gaps in electrification access, especially for disadvantaged communities, renters, and those in multi-family housing. AB 39 addresses this disparity by requiring local governments to identify and address their electrification needs, aligning state and local efforts for maximum efficiency and equity.
AB 39 will be assigned to a legislative committee in the coming weeks.