SAN FRANCISCO
– Joy to the City is a holiday event aimed at giving low income families the opportunity to celebrate the holidays with live entertainment, ice skating, hot chocolate, pictures with Santa, and fun craft projects for kids. Last year the inaugural event was attended by over 5,000 people with the main event being a toy giveaway for low income families that ensured over 4,000 children received at least one gift for the holidays. In the last three weeks leading up to the second annual Joy to the City, organizers have received thousands more RSVPs than last year and are in urgent need for donations of an additional 3,000 toys for kids. Organizers are asking businesses or individuals who are able to donate unwrapped toys to the event before Saturday.
Joy to the City is a free, all-ages holiday and toy giveaway event focused on low income families in San Francisco and is organized by Assemblymember Matt Haney and Code Tenderloin and their non-profit 501(c)(3) partner Center for New Music— a community organization that provides services to families in the Tenderloin neighborhood. Code Tenderloin has been leading the toy drive effort for Joy to the City and last year at the first Joy to the City, provided over 4,000 toys for all age groups at the event.
In the recent weeks leading up to Joy to the City this Saturday, organizers have seen the number of RSVPs for attendees more than double from last year. With the massive increase in attendance, organizers expect the need for additional children’s toys to be 3,000.
“Joy to the City is a moment of relief for families, especially in my community,” said Mission District resident Wilma Bolia, a mother who brought her four children to Joy to the City last year. “We rely on amazing people who can donate their time and toys for kids’ smiles.”
Over 10% of families in San Francisco live in poverty, and 1.4 million people in the San Francisco Bay Area live in or at the edge of the poverty line. The holiday season can be an especially challenging time of year for families to make ends meet, and often low-income families don’t have the means to buy children presents.
“I think it’s important that every child gets at least one toy to open on Christmas morning,” said Assemblymember Haney. “We’ve seen the need for toys skyrocket this year, and we’re hoping the community can help us make these kids' holiday wishes come true.”
Business leaders and employees, community members, neighbors, and residents are welcome to donate unwrapped toys.
“Items like dolls, action figures, art kits, books, and sports equipment are especially needed,” said Code Tenderloin Executive Director Donna Hilliard. “Help us spread joy and make the holidays brighter for families in need. Together, we can make this season magical for all!”
Toy Donations for Joy to the City
Each donated toy makes a difference to a child. Please consider making a toy donation for the Joy to the City toy giveaway. Donate toys at Code Tenderloin Headquarters.
Drop-Off Location
: 55 Taylor St, San Francisco, CA 94102
Donate and drop off unwrapped new toys, or make a monetary contribution online at
www.codetenderloin.org/joy-to-the-city-2024
.
Joy to the City
Presented by Code Tenderloin and Assemblymember Matt Haney
Date
: Saturday, December 7, 2024
Time
: 2:00 pm – 6:00 pm
Location
: Chase Center Thrive City at 1725 3rd Street, San Francisco, CA 94158
###