SACRAMENTO, Calif. –
The Select Committee on Permitting Reform, chaired by Assemblymember Buffy Wicks, will host its inaugural hearing to advance a bipartisan initiative on permitting reform. The Committee will gather testimony from diverse stakeholders across the state, study the impacts of permitting on critical public policy areas, and make evidence-based recommendations to modernize California’s permitting system.
What
:
Inaugural Hearing - Select Committee on Permitting Reform
When
:
Tuesday, June 18, 2024
9:00 AM - 12:00 PM
Where
:
State Capitol, Room 447
Who
:
Subject matter experts -
Lars Moller Christiansen, Deputy Director General, Denmark’s Environmental Protection Agency
Christopher Calfee, Special Counsel to the Secretary, California Natural Resources Agency
Shannan West, Housing Accountability Unit Chief, California Department of Housing and Community Development
Nick Marantz, Associate Professor of Urban Planning and Public Policy, University of California, Irvine
Michael Wara, Director of the Climate and Energy Policy Program, Stanford University
Newsha Ajami, Chief Strategic Development Officer for Research in the Earth and Environmental Sciences Area (EESA), Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory
Steve Bohlen, Senior Director, Government and External Affairs, Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory
Committee members -
Assemblymember Buffy Wicks (Chair) – District 14
Assemblymember David A. Alvarez – District 80
Assemblymember Isaac Bryan – District 55
Assemblymember Diane Dixon – District 72
Assemblymember Juan Carrillo – District 39
Assemblymember Heath Flora – District 09
Assemblymember Timothy Grayson – District 15
Assemblymember Ash Kalra – District 25
Assemblymember Cottie Petrie-Norris – District 73
Assemblymember Blanca Rubio – District 48
Assemblymember Christopher M. Ward – District 78
Assemblymember Jim Wood – District 02
Details
:
The Committee will define the scope of its initiative and provide an overview of permitting challenges in the state. The Committee is partnering with the Bay Area Council Economic Institute to study permitting impacts on housing; climate resilience, including water and wildfire; and clean energy in the state. The study will include the effects of permitting on achieving state goals, the costs and risks of inaction, and equity and accessibility for all Californians.
This is an opportunity for media, policymakers and the public to engage with the process and learn about the impacts California’s permitting system has on the state’s ability to achieve its goals.
Media Opportunities
:
Interviews with Assemblymember Buffy Wicks, chair, and other Committee members and speakers following hearing
Photo and video opportunities during the hearing
Access to press materials and background information
# # #
About Assemblymember Buffy Wicks
Assemblymember Buffy Wicks represents California’s 14th Assembly District, which includes all or portions of the cities of Oakland, Richmond, Berkeley, Albany, El Cerrito, San Pablo, Pinole, El Sobrante, Hercules, Rodeo, Kensington, and Piedmont. You can learn more about Assemblymember Wicks at
http://a14.asmdc.org
.
About the Select Committee on Permitting Reform
The Select Committee on Permitting Reform is dedicated to addressing and resolving California’s systemic permitting issues. By fostering bipartisan collaboration and engaging diverse stakeholders, the Committee aims to streamline regulatory frameworks to support the state's goals in housing, clean energy and climate resilience. Through these efforts, the Committee seeks to create a more efficient and equitable system that facilitates the development of critical projects while preserving the health of our environment and the wellbeing of California's residents.