I am honored to be recognized as a Legislative Pro-Kid Champion with a 100% score on the 2023-24 Pro-Kid Scorecard by the Children Now Action Fund. This recognition reflects my legislative commitment to advancing policies that prioritize the well-being of California's children and their future success.
Every vote I cast in the Legislature is guided by the intent to create policies that ensure our children have access to the opportunities they deserve. Whether it's building an economy that provides good-paying, living-wage jobs, ensuring access to quality education that prepares them for the 21st century, or addressing critical issues like mental health, clean air, and affordable housing, my focus remains on shaping a brighter future for California's youth.
My legislative work is driven by the belief that investing in our children today leads to a stronger, more prosperous state tomorrow. I will continue working tirelessly to support policies that empower our kids to succeed, debt-free, with the tools they need to thrive.
Bills considered as Pro-Kid
AB 51
(Bonta) - Early Childcare and Education
AB 249
(Holden) - Water: Schoolsites: lead testing
AB 369
(Zbur) - Foster care: independent living
AB 393
(L. Rivas) - Childcare
AB 596
(Reyes) - Early learning and care
AB 599
(Ward) - Suspensions and expulsions: tobacco
AB 665
(W. Carillo) - Minors: consent to mental health services
AB 1864
(Connolly & Addis) - Pesticides: agricultural use near schoolsites
AB 1947
(L. Rivas) - California state preschool programs: contracting agencies: staff training days
AB 1955
(Ward) - Support Academic Futures and Educators for Today’s Youth Act
AB 2340
(Bonta) - Medi-Cal: EPSDT services: informational materials
AB 2343
(Schiavo) - CalWORKs: childcare programs
AB 2458
(Berman & Boerner) - Public postsecondary education: student parents
AB 2508
(McCarty) - Student financial aid: California Kids Investment and Development Savings Program: foster youth
AB 2830
(R. Rivas) - Foster care: relative placement: approval process
SB 238
(Wiener) - Health care coverage: independent medical review
SB 274
(Skinner) - Suspensions and expulsions: willful defiance: interventions and supports
SB 348
(Skinner) - Pupil meals: : Requires schools to provide students with adequate time to eat following guidelines established by the California Department of Education
SB 394
(Gonzalez) - Master Plan for Healthy, Sustainable, and Climate-Resilient Schools
SB 635
(Menjivar & Portantino) - Health care coverage: hearing aids
SB 1244
(Newman) - Pupil instruction: dual enrollment: College and Career Access Pathways partnerships