Imperial Beach, CA –
Today, Assemblymember David Alvarez (D-San Diego) announced the passage of
Assembly Joint Resolution 12 (AJR 12)
in the State Legislature. This bipartisan resolution calls on the President and the United States Congress to fully fund the Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA) Comprehensive Infrastructure Solution for the Tijuana River and to declare a national emergency due to environmental disaster impacting public health and beach access in South San Diego.
“Pollution in the Tijuana River is an urgent environmental and public health crisis that demands immediate federal action,” said
Assemblymember Alvarez
. “With the passage of AJR 12, we are sending a clear message to our federal leaders that the time to act is now. Full funding for the EPA’s Comprehensive Infrastructure Solution is essential to protect public health, open our beaches and prevent further damage to our natural ecosystems.”
Beaches in South San Diego have been closed since December 8, 2021, for nearly 1,000 days, due to cross-border pollution. AJR 12, authored by Assemblymember Alvarez and co-authored by over 70 legislators, including every legislator from San Diego, emphasizes the urgent need for federal investment to tackle the severe pollution challenges in the Tijuana River. For decades, the river has been a source of untreated sewage, solid waste, and other contaminants, jeopardizing the well-being of residents and the ecological health of the Tijuana River Estuary and the Pacific Ocean.
“The City of Imperial Beach and communities in south San Diego County are seeing increases in reports of respiratory ailments, gastrointestinal issues, asthma, nausea, and diarrhea related to the onslaught of toxic pollution coming across the border carried by the Tijuana River,” said
Paloma Aguirre, Mayor of Imperial Beach
. “Over 135 billion gallons of toxic sewage have fouled our air and coastal waters causing our state and local beaches to be closed for over 900 consecutive days. I am thankful to Assemblymember Alvarez for leading this resolution as funding for projects listed under the Tijuana River Comprehensive Solution is critical, especially since the primary source of pollution to all south San Diego and coastal communities is the Tijuana River itself, for which there are no formal environmental reviews done yet, nor funding allocated to divert it for treatment. We are years away from that happening, which is why we need a California and federal state of emergency declaration, so we can expedite efforts to treat the river and eliminate once and for all the source of toxic pollution harming Californians.”
The EPA’s Comprehensive Infrastructure Solution for the Tijuana River encompasses a range of critical projects aimed at enhancing wastewater treatment capabilities, constructing new infrastructure to manage sewage flows, and implementing advanced pollution control measures. These projects are designed to drastically reduce the influx of untreated wastewater into the Tijuana River, mitigating environmental damage and improving quality of life for residents on both sides of the border. A federal emergency declaration can fast-track the funding and permitting of projects to combat cross-border pollution.
“Impacted communities, wildlife, and ecosystems cannot afford to wait any longer for solutions to the worsening public health and environmental justice emergency in the Tijuana Watershed," said
Sarah Davidson, Clean Border Water Now Manager at Surfrider Foundation
. "We are grateful for this action brought by Assemblymember Alvarez and supported by the entire California legislature. This is indeed a bipartisan issue that demands immediate prioritization, funding, and action."
The Chief Clerk of the Assembly will transmit copies of AJR-12 to President Biden and Vice President Harris, the Speaker of the United States House of Representatives, the Majority Leader of the United States Senate, each U.S. Senator and Congressional Representative from California, the Commissioner of the USIBWC, the Governor, and the California Attorney General for appropriate distribution.
Assemblymember Alvarez remains committed to working with federal leaders to ensure the EPA’s Comprehensive Infrastructure Solution receives the necessary support for full implementation immediately.