SACRAMENTO, CA.
— Today, Assembly Bill (AB) 2234 on E-Bike Safety Training by Assemblymember Tasha Boerner passed the Assembly Floor. This critical legislation comes forward as the state commemorates National Bike Month. AB 2234 would ensure the safety of children by allowing cities in San Diego County to prohibit children under the age of 12 from riding a class one or two e-bike as a pilot program.
While e-bike usage has increased, e-bike injuries have also become more common. With the increased number of e-bikes on the road, these injuries have occurred more frequently and resulted in severe injuries and even deaths. E-bike injuries have become more prevalent than traditional bicycle injuries, with children 13 years and under making up the majority of e-bike injuries requiring a hospital visit. According to the National Electronic Injury Surveillance System, there were 3,945 e-bike injuries between 2011 and 2020. The e-bike injuries increased over time during the study period, with the 10-13 year old age group making up 44% of those injuries. Children under the age of 14 made up 72% of e-bike injuries over the study period.
“As a mother, I believe that we must act to prevent our youth from injuries and educate parents on the benefits and responsibility of e-bikes, and AB 2234 takes a step to increase their safety while sharing the road. Given the increase of e-bike incidents that have taken place in our communities, it becomes the responsibility of the community and the state to ensure not another one of our children is seriously injured,” stated Assemblymember Boerner. “Through education and redirection, not punishment, we can teach young riders to take responsibility for their safety and the safety of others on the road.”
AB 2234 is moving forward and is headed to the Senate.
###
Assemblymember Tasha Boerner represents the 77th District, which encompasses Carlsbad, Encinitas, Solana Beach, Del Mar, Coronado and the coastal communities of La Jolla south to Downtown San Diego. You can learn more about Assemblymember Boerner at
a77.asmdc.org
,
Facebook
,
Instagram
, or
Twitter/X
.