SACRAMENTO, CA –
Assemblywoman Lori D. Wilson released the following statement on ACA 8's passage in both Senate and Assembly Floors.
“Today marks a historic milestone in our ongoing fight for justice and equality. ACA 8, the End Slavery in California Act, has successfully passed both the Senate and Assembly floors. This historic measure will now be presented to the voters of California, giving them the power to decide on ending slavery and involuntary servitude in our state constitution. What could be more democratic than allowing the people to make this crucial decision?
This significant achievement is the result of the collective efforts of many dedicated individuals and organizations. I want to extend my heartfelt thanks to my esteemed colleagues in the legislature. Your steadfast support and commitment have been instrumental in bringing us to this critical juncture.
I am profoundly grateful to our sponsors and advocates, particularly Congresswoman Maxine Waters and Congresswoman Sydney Kamlager-Dove. Congresswoman Kamlager-Dove, thank you for your pioneering work on this issue years ago. Your leadership and dedication laid the foundation for the success of ACA 8, and your continued advocacy has been invaluable. I hope this gives you the boost you need to change this at the Federal level.
To my incredible staff, your hard work, perseverance, and dedication behind the scenes have been the backbone of this effort since it was introduced in February and crossed the floor by my then Assembly Fellow Aldo Garcia. I am immensely proud of what we have accomplished together. I want to specifically thank Taylor Woolfork, Mark Rossow, Erik Turner, and Edgar Guerra for their exceptional efforts and dedication.
Lastly, I want to thank the entire ACA 8 Coalition and the numerous advocates and community members who have supported this measure from its inception. Your passion and relentless pursuit of justice have been inspiring, and together, we are making history.
To Sam Nathaniel Brown. Your lived experience while imprisoned during the pandemic brought to light the real consequences of this language in our constitution. Thank you for sharing your story.
Special shout out to three extremely helpful people during some of the most intense times of our negotiations: Esteban Núñez, Jeronimo Aguilar, and J. Vasquez. Thank you.
The passage of ACA 8 in both the Senate and the Assembly represents more than just a legislative victory. It is a testament to our collective resolve to correct historical wrongs and ensure that every individual in California is treated with the dignity and respect they deserve. Now, as we look ahead to the November 2024 ballot, let us continue to work with the same spirit of determination and unity that has brought us to this moment.
Thank you all for your unwavering support and commitment to ending modern-day slavery in our state. Together, we will make history and take a significant step toward a more just and equitable society."
###
Assemblywoman Lori D. Wilson was elected in April 2022 to represent California’s 11th Assembly District which includes all of Solano County and portions of Contra Costa and Sacramento Counties. The District includes the Cities of: Benicia, Dixon, Fairfield, Oakley, Rio Vista, Suisun City, Vacaville and Vallejo.