The East Bay Regional Park District celebrated its 90th Anniversary on Wednesday, Nov. 13, 2024, at the Regional Parks Botanic Garden with the presentation of resolutions by State Senator Nancy Skinner and Assemblymember Rebecca Bauer-Kahan. The resolutions recognize the Park District’s contributions over the past 90 years and its important role in the East Bay providing access to nature close to home for the three million residents in Alameda and Contra Costa counties.
“For many people, East Bay Regional Parks have provided a lifetime of memories,” said East Bay Regional Park District General Manager Sabrina Landreth. “Whether it’s taking a first hike, catching a first fish, or feeding animals at the Little Farm, many of us have lasting memories and a deep appreciation for East Bay Regional Parks.”
The Park District’s story began in the late 1920s when thousands of acres of watershed land in the East Bay hills became available for development. Civic leaders came together with an ambitious vision to preserve the land forever and balance environmental conservation with public enjoyment. In 1934, during the Great Depression, a measure was placed on the ballot to create the East Bay Regional Park District and provide funding for land preservation. The measure passed with 71 percent voter approval.
Today, the Park District has 73 Regional Parks and is the largest regional park district in the nation.
“For the past 90 years, the East Bay Regional Park District has preserved and protected open space and provided safe and welcoming parks for recreation, conservation, and enjoying nature in Alameda and Contra Costa counties,” said East Bay Regional Park District Board President Elizabeth Echols. “Today, we are the largest regional park district in the country with over 126,000 acres of parklands, 55 miles of shoreline, and over 1,330 miles of trails available for hiking, biking, swimming, horseback riding, boating, fishing, picnicking, camping, and nature discovery.”
Two East Bay Regional Park District champions – State Senator Nancy Skinner and Assemblymember Rebecca Bauer-Kahan – presented resolutions at the event. Both are key supporters of the Park District in Sacramento and have secured much needed funding for Regional Parks, environmental restoration, and wildfire protection.
Senator Nancy Skinner secured $36 million in the 2022-23 budget for acquisition and clean-up of Point Molate Regional Park in Richmond and $10 million in the 2021-22 budget to address tree mortality on Park District lands, a public safety emergency. These funds are currently helping remove dead and dying trees from East Bay Regional Parks.
“Congratulations to the East Bay Regional Park District on its 90th anniversary,” said Senator Skinner. “East Bay residents are both fortunate and incredibly smart to have created this largest-in-the nation regional park system, repeatedly voting to tax themselves so that now, and for generations to come, park lovers and visitors can enjoy these scenic and wild places in the midst of our hustle-bustle urban lives. And kudos to the Park District for its longstanding environmental stewardship, promoting conservation, habitat preservation and positive outdoor experiences for millions of residents and visitors.”
Assemblymember Bauer-Kahan secured $4 million in the 2019-20 state budget for restoration of Alder and Leatherwood Creek in Robert Sibley Volcanic Regional Preserve. The Alder and Leatherwood Creek project restored 3,000 feet of culverted creek to more natural conditions and is the largest creek restoration project in the Park District’s 90-year history. The area provides restored natural habitat for special-status or protected species and improved water quality and streamflow in the creek channel for rainbow trout.
Assemblymember Bauer-Kahan also secured $3.5 million for the Park District in the 2021-22 state budget for wildfire protection equipment, including equipment for the Park District’s new helicopter, which is relied upon as a tool to put out fires.
“The East Bay Regional Park District has been a cornerstone of environmental preservation and public access for our community, providing essential open space and recreation for generations,” said Assemblymember Rebecca Bauer-Kahan. “I’m honored to celebrate this 90th anniversary and to support the District’s ongoing mission with crucial funding for wildfire protection and habitat restoration. This park system not only enhances our quality of life but also exemplifies our shared commitment to conserving California’s natural heritage for future generations.”
For more information about the Park District’s 90th Anniversary, visit
www.ebparks.org/celebrating-90-years
.
The East Bay Regional Park District is the largest regional park system in the nation, comprising 73 parks, 55 miles of shoreline, and over 1,330 miles of trails for hiking, biking, horseback riding, and environmental education. The Park District receives an estimated 30 million visits annually throughout Alameda and Contra Costa counties in the San Francisco Bay Area.
# # #