SACRAMENTO—When teaching about the Spanish Mission and Gold Rush Eras, California public schools would be required to teach the true history of the impact on California Native Americans during those periods if AB 1821 – now headed to the governor – is approved. The full Assembly passed the bill tonight.
Ramos said, “This bill builds upon my previous legislation, the California Indian Education Act, approved in 2022. For far too long California’s First People and their history have been ignored or misrepresented. Classroom instruction about the Mission and Gold Rush periods fails to include the loss of life, enslavement, starvation, illness and violence inflicted upon California Native American people during those times. These historical omissions from the curriculum are misleading.”
State Superintendent of Public Instruction Tony Thurmond, a bill sponsor
noted, “I am proud to have co-sponsored AB 1821 by Assembly Ramos, and to see this important legislation pass the Senate floor. This legislation will help ensure curriculum on California’s Spanish mission and Gold Rush Era accurately captures the treatment and impact of Native Americans during these significant eras in state history. This initiative supports California’s diverse students to be seen, heard, and understood in their instructional materials, and to foster a deeper appreciation for our Native communities’ history and cultures.”
In sponsoring the measure,
San Manuel Band of Mission Indians Tribal Council Chairwoman Lynn Valbuena
stated, “I am proud to have co-sponsored AB 1821 by Assembly Ramos, and to see this important legislation pass the Senate floor. This legislation will help ensure curriculum on California’s Spanish mission and Gold Rush Era accurately captures the treatment and impact of Native Americans during these significant eras in state history. This initiative supports California’s diverse students to be seen, heard, and understood in their instructional materials, and to foster a deeper appreciation for our Native communities’ history and cultures.”
Late last year, a poll released by the Institute of Governmental Studies showed strong support to require California schools to incorporate teaching about Native American tribes’ history and culture. An overwhelming 80% of respondents were in support of a requirement such as AB 1821.
In 2022, Governor Gavin Newsom signed AB 1703 – the California Indian Education Act – into law. It encourages local educational agencies to create California Indian Education Task Forces to develop curriculum about the history and culture of tribes native or residing in their region. Although AB 1703 was a significant step toward inclusion of native voices, it stopped short of requiring the change in curriculum. AB 1821 would take that extra step.
A
third bill sponsor is the Soboba Band of Luiseno Indians
. A partial list of other supporters include the Santa Ynez Band of Chumash Indians, Tule River Tribe, California Teachers Association, California Tribal Business Alliance, California State PTA, ACLU California Action, Los Angeles County Office of Education, California Association for Bilingual Education and California Charter Schools Association.
###
Assemblymember James C. Ramos proudly represents the 45
th
Assembly district which includes the Cities of Fontana, Highland, Mentone, Redlands, Rialto and San Bernardino. He is the first and only California Native American serving in the state’s legislature. Ramos chairs the Assembly Budget Subcommittee #6 on Public Safety.