FRESNO – Governor Gavin Newsom today signed two bills authored by Assemblymember Dr. Joaquin Arambula (D-Fresno) that will help improve the lives of farmworkers and people living in disadvantaged communities exposed to poorly managed sewer systems.
The Governor traveled to the Central Valley to sign Assembly Bill 2240 in Fresno and Assembly Bill 805 in East Orosi.
AB 2240
– with Speaker Robert Rivas as the principal co-author – eliminates an outdated requirement that forced farmworker families to move out of farm labor centers for a minimum of three months or risk ineligibility for that housing, disrupting their lives and their children’s education. In addition, AB 2240 will address the physical condition of the state’s farm labor centers to ensure these centers will be dignified places by requiring they comply with health and safety codes for hearing, cooling, clean water, and other systems.
AB 2240 was one of the priority bills this year for the California Latino Legislative Caucus.
AB 805
authorizes the State Water Resources Control Board to appoint administrators to better manage failing sewer systems to protect disadvantaged communities from health and safety issues. This bill originated with residents in East Orosi, which has experienced years of a failed system. Governor Newsom signed this bill in East Orosi, where he met with Assemblymember Arambula and residents affected by water and sanitation problems.
Assemblymember Arambula said of the signing of AB 2240:
“I’m grateful that Governor Newsom has signed Assembly Bill 2240 and that Speaker Rivas, as principal co-author, made this a priority. We know these changes will improve the lives of hard-working farmworkers and their families, and that this effort was always about giving them the dignity, respect, and protection that they have earned and deserved.”
In regard to the signing of AB 805, Assemblymember Arambula said:
“I deeply appreciate Governor Newsom signing Assembly Bill 805, and I’m grateful to the East Orosi community and the Community Water Center for strongly pushing for this important legislation. Everyone should have access to safe and affordable drinking water and sanitation. We know that poorly managed sewer systems can have a harmful impact on the health and well-being of people exposed to these unacceptable situations. In East Orosi, residents for years have been dealing with a failing system and fighting for change. I hope this legislation brings much-needed improvements to prevent further injustice of this nature and to protect them and all Californians.”
#####