SANTA CLARITA —
Assemblywoman Pilar Schiavo announced today that her office has successfully secured nearly $95 million in direct investments for Assembly District 40, marking an historic victory for local communities.This funding will be used to address critical needs across the district, including affordable housing, school safety improvements, fire and water infrastructure, supporting seniors, and student and community health and wellness initiatives. Additionally, $1.3 million has been returned directly to district residents through the resolution of issues with state agencies.
These investments will support a wide range of community needs, including:
Housing and homelessness solutions
, ensuring families across the district have access to affordable housing.
School safety and infrastructure upgrades
, enhancing security and modernization efforts in educational facilities.
Water and fire protection
, bolstering infrastructure to safeguard communities against natural disasters.
Community health and wellness initiatives
, supporting healthcare and wellness programs for vulnerable residents.
Youth and family safety
, investing in programs that protect and empower families throughout the district.
School infrastructure and greening programs
, creating healthier and more sustainable environments for students in K-12 public schools.
Services for seniors
, including supportive programs to ensure seniors have the resources they need to live well and thrive.
$1 Million Put Back Into the Pockets of Community Members
Beyond large-scale funding wins, Assemblywoman Schiavo’s office has also successfully returned
$1.3 million directly to district residents
by cutting through bureaucratic red tape in Sacramento. Her office has resolved unemployment issues, secured tax refunds, reduced DMV fees, and addressed various challenges community members faced in navigating state agencies.
“Every dollar we’ve brought back to this district is a dollar that will make a real difference in the lives of our residents,” said Assemblywoman Schiavo. “I will continue to fight every day for the funding and resources our communities deserve and ensure that Sacramento is working to support our community.”
###
Assemblywoman Pilar Schiavo was elected to the California State Assembly in November of 2022 to represent the 40th Assembly District, representing the Northwest San Fernando Valley and the Santa Clarita Valley. Upon her election, she was appointed as Assistant Majority Whip by the Speaker of the Assembly and now serves as Chair of the Assembly Committee on Military and Veterans Affairs. Prior to her election, Assemblywoman Schiavo was a Nurse Advocate and Small Business Owner who worked in the labor movement for more than 20 years. Throughout her career, Assemblywoman Schiavo helped deliver healthcare, including reproductive healthcare, to more than one million people. In the Northwest San Fernando Valley, she co-founded an organization that helped secure housing for Veterans experiencing homelessness, has delivered more than 50,000 meals to people in need, and increased resources to help keep our communities safe. Assemblywoman Schiavo lives in Chatsworth with her daughter Sofia where they love to hike in the Santa Susana Mountains.