SACRAMENTO, CA – This week Assemblymember Damon Connolly (D-San Rafael) passed eight of his Assembly Bills (AB) out of Assembly Policy Committees. Policy Committee hearings are the first time a bill is heard and a vote is counted, and the first stop in a piece of legislation’s journey to the governor’s desk to become law. This week, Assemblymember Connolly passed bills out of the Assembly Committees on Transportation, Water, Parks & Wildlife, Environmental Safety & Toxic Materials, Housing & Community Development, Education, and Agriculture.
“I am proud to put forward a bill package this legislative session that addresses the unique needs of our communities, and I am very pleased with their success in passing through their respective Assembly Policy Committees” said Assemblymember Damon Connolly (D-San Rafael). “From improving safety in our community by reducing eBike collisions to environmental initiatives like codifying the Beaver Restoration Program, this bill package will enhance both our community in Assembly District (AD) 12 as well as each of our diverse and distinct communities across California.”
AB 1778
passed out of the Transportation Committee. This bill
addresses the rising number of e-bike collisions and injuries among children in our community by authorizing Marin County to establish a pilot program that prohibits children under 16 from operating Class 2 throttle e-bikes. AB 1778 now heads to the Assembly floor.
AB 2196
passed out of the Water, Parks & Wildlife Committee. This bill
codifies the Beaver Restoration Program and advocates for the restoration of beavers back into traditional and historical wildlife habitats, supporting ecosystem conservation. AB 2196 now heads to the Assembly Appropriations Committee.
AB 1864
passed out of the Environmental Safety & Toxic Materials Committee. This bill strengthens the enforcement on pesticide restrictions in school zones. This bill now heads to the Assembly Education Committee.
AB 2897
passed out of the Housing & Community Development Committee. This bill expands the definition of a Community Land Trust, eliminates a redundant evaluation requirement, and makes a technical correction to the Welfare Exemption Code. This bill now heads to the Assembly Revenue & Taxation Committee.
AB 2539
passed out of the Housing & Community Development Committee. This bill
protects mobile home residents by allowing them the time and opportunity to purchase their park if the owner is selling, allowing residents to secure their own long-term housing affordability and stability. AB 2539 now heads to the Assembly Judiciary Committee.
AB 2968
passed out of the Education Committee. This bill
updates and improves wildfire defensible space and evacuation protocols for schools in high risk wildfire zones. AB 2968 now heads to the Assembly Natural Resources Committee.
AB 2143
passed out of the Agriculture Committee. This bill
consolidates code sections relating to fairgrounds to the Food and Agriculture code, improving clarity and simplicity in the law. This bill now heads to the Assembly Appropriations Committee.
AB 2734
passed out of the Agriculture Committee. This bill
updates the California Department of Food and Agriculture’s Healthy Soils Program based on farmer input to promote climate-smart practices across California. AB 2734 now heads to the Assembly Appropriations Committee.
###
Assemblymember Connolly represents the entirety of Marin County and Southern Sonoma County