FRESNO – Assemblymember Dr. Joaquin Arambula (D-Fresno) and the 31
st
Assembly District office will host four Community Health and Resource Fairs in April in Fresno County, starting this Saturday, April 6, in Orange Cove.
Since his election in 2016, Assemblymember Arambula has presented free resource fairs nearly each spring and fall throughout Fresno County to bring basic health services, health screenings, and information about resources to people in rural communities and underserved neighborhoods. Information is offered regarding education, immigration, legal services, social services, and much more.
(The COVID-19 pandemic forced the suspension of these fairs, but the Assembymember and the 31
st
Assembly District office then focused on free COVID-19 testing and vaccinations as well as food distributions during that period.)
Assemblymember Arambula collaborates with cities, agencies, and community-based organizations for each resource fair. For the April 6 event, the City of Orange Cove is a chief collaborator.
Partners for the entire spring 2024 events are the Fresno State Mobile Health Units, Poverello House, the Central California Food Bank, and Anthem Blue Cross.
Assemblymember Arambula said:
“One of my top priorities is the health of our people, especially those who are vulnerable or live in underserved or rural communities. They may have limited or no access to health care services. It’s important to offer these health screenings and information about a range of resources that can offer services and support to help everyone in our communities lead healthier and better lives.”
Here is the schedule for this spring’s Community Health and Resource Fairs:
April 6, Orange Cove
– 9 a.m.to 1 p.m. at the Orange Cove Community Center, 1705 S. Anchor Ave., Orange Cove 93646
. (Note: the Poverello House won’t be at this event.)
April 11, Parlier
– 9 a.m. to 1 p.m. at the Parlier Community Center, 1100 E. Parlier Ave., Parlier 93648
April 18, Fresno
– 9 a.m. to 1 p.m. at Jaswant Singh Khalra Neighborhood Park, 3861 W.Clinton Ave., Fresno 93722
April 20, Fresno
– 9 a.m. to noon at the Sal Mosqueda Community Center, 4670 E. Butler Ave., Fresno 93702.
#####