Hayward, CA
– St. Rose Hospital, Hayward’s only emergency room and a critical safety-net provider for Central and South Alameda County, has been saved from imminent closure thanks to a landmark agreement allowing Alameda Health System (AHS) to assume governance and operations. Following months of advocacy led by Asm. Liz Ortega (D-San Leandro), St. Rose is now on a path to financial stability and will continue to serve thousands of patients in need.
“Across the state and country, giant health companies are pushing community hospitals out of business. I'm proud that Alameda Health System and St. Rose Hospital are bucking the trend,” said Assemblymember Liz Ortega. “Our mission-driven public health system is stepping up to save an essential community hospital so it can continue to serve our community.”
The acquisition was made possible through a collaborative effort involving community leaders, local officials, and legislators, including Assemblymember Liz Ortega, who introduced Assembly Bill 2271 as part of the campaign to secure St. Rose’s future. AB 2271
helped raise awareness and rally support
, underscoring the importance of St. Rose as a healthcare resource in Alameda County. The AHS Board of Trustees recently authorized the CEO to take all necessary actions to finalize the acquisition, including extending a line of credit of up to $15 million over the next five years.
St. Rose Hospital has long served as a lifeline for the community, treating more than 40,000 patients annually, with over 70% of patients relying on Medi-Cal. The hospital’s essential services, particularly in emergency and maternal healthcare, make it an indispensable resource for Hayward and surrounding areas.
Assemblymember Ortega’s leadership and AB 2271 were pivotal in garnering public support and emphasizing the hospital’s importance to the community. In partnership with the St. Rose Hospital Board of Directors, Eden Health District, Alameda County, the City of Hayward, Stanford Health Care, Alameda Alliance for Health, Tiburcio Vasquez Health Center, Alameda Health Consortium, Hayward Mayor Mark Salinas, and Supervisor Elisa Márquez, this effort reflects a shared commitment to preserving healthcare access for Alameda County residents.
St. Rose Hospital operates 171 acute care beds and employs over 800 local residents. Alameda Health System (AHS) is a public health system in Alameda County that offers comprehensive healthcare services through a network of five hospitals, including Highland, San Leandro, and Alameda Hospitals, in addition to four primary care medical clinics. It is run by a board of trustees appointed by the Alameda County Board of Supervisors.
For more information or to schedule an interview with Asm. Ortega, please contact M.V. Watson at (210) 667-5046 (text preferred).
Assemblymember Liz Ortega is Chair of the Assembly Committee on Labor & Employment and sits on the Assembly Committees on Budget, Insurance, Human Services and Privacy and Consumer Protection. She represents the 20th Assembly District, encompassing all or a portion of the cities of Hayward, San Leandro, Union City, Dublin, Pleasanton and the unincorporated areas of Ashland, Cherryland, Fairview, San Lorenzo, and Castro Valley