In 2023 alone,
over 1,000 pedestrians were killed on California's roads, and the state’s pedestrian fatality rate is
nearly 25% higher
than the national average. Assemblymember Alex Lee’s bill AB 413, which was signed by the Governor last year, will reduce preventable traffic collisions by making it easier for road users to see each other at intersections. Through the safety measure known as daylighting, the bill keeps intersections clear of visual obstructions, and enforcement of AB 413 will begin on Jan. 1, 2025.
“AB 413 saves lives through a simple and effective solution to improve road safety,” said Assemblymember Lee. “Intersections are some of the most dangerous portions of our roads, and daylighting will make them safer for everyone. More than 40 states have already implemented daylighting laws prior to AB 413, and I’m glad that California is joining the rest of the country on improving road safety.”
Roughly a quarter of all traffic fatalities nationwide occur around intersections, and daylighting is a proven and widely accepted measure to improve road safety. In Hoboken, New Jersey, for instance, city officials have credited daylighting as a
crucial factor
in curbing traffic fatalities. New York City has committed to
implementing
daylighting at 1,000 intersections citywide. Cities in California including San Francisco, Alameda, and Fremont all adopted daylighting before AB 413, and the law will ensure that the traffic measure is implemented across cities statewide.
Since AB 413 took effect in 2024, local jurisdictions could issue warnings for violations of the bill. Starting next year, they may issue citations for those who violate daylighting zones. The bill keeps 20 feet of any marked or unmarked crosswalks or 15 feet of crosswalks with curb extensions clear of stopped vehicles.
AB 413 was sponsored by the California Bicycle Coalition (CalBike) and Streets For All.
“Passing the daylighting law was just the first step. As communities improve sightlines at intersections, Californians will be able to walk and bike more safely,” said Jared Sanchez, CalBike Policy Director. “CalBike applauds Assemblymember Lee for his leadership on this critical issue. We are proud to partner with him in encouraging local governments to prioritize implementation of this important new safety measure.”
"Daylighting is a proven strategy for making our intersections safer for pedestrians and especially children,” said Marc Vukcevich, Director of State Policy at Streets For All. “Lives will be saved because of daylighting, and we look forward to continuing our work to make California’s streets safer.”