SANTA CLARITA
— As we approach the final week of the legislative session, Assemblywoman Schiavo is proud to highlight one of the non-legislative and most critical functions of her office: delivering for the community through effective casework. Since being elected in 2022, Assemblywoman Schiavo’s office has successfully secured more than $1.1 million for constituents by resolving issues with state agencies and departments.
"Nothing is more important to me than being able to make a real impact for families, especially when so many are struggling to get by," said Assemblywoman Schiavo. "Casework has made such a profound difference because we've been able to get the wheels turning on behalf of our constituents. When they encounter roadblocks with state agencies, our office steps in to ensure they get the help and the outcomes they deserve and dollars into their pockets."
This commitment to constituent service is reflected in the stories of residents like Dennis and Joshua, who turned to Assemblywoman Schiavo's office when they hit dead ends with state departments:
“When I bought a car, the dealer made some registration mistakes and collected fees they shouldn’t have since I’m a 100% disabled veteran. I tried to resolve the issue and get a refund from the DMV, accomplishing nothing. The District Office did in a few days what I couldn’t get done in 6 months, and I received my refund and registration,” shared Dennis from Santa Clarita.
Joshua, also from Santa Clarita, also shared his story: “I was having great difficulty straightening out my disability claim with EDD for over 6 weeks. Within 10 days, the district office helped resolve the issue and saved our family from crisis when we received the over $8,000 owed to us.”
From assisting veterans to resolving disability claims or State Franchise Tax board issues, our office has been instrumental in turning bureaucratic hurdles into successful outcomes, ensuring that every dollar owed to constituents is returned.
"Our goal is to ensure that no one in our district feels powerless when dealing with state agencies," Schiavo continued. "By working together, we've proven that we can bring the power of our state agencies directly to our district in a way that makes a tangible difference in the lives of our community members."
###
Assemblywoman Pilar Schiavo was elected to the California State Assembly in November of 2022 to represent the 40th Assembly District, representing the Northwest San Fernando Valley and the Santa Clarita Valley. Upon her election, she was appointed as Assistant Majority Whip by the Speaker of the Assembly and now serves as Chair of the Assembly Committee on Military and Veterans Affairs. Prior to her election, Assemblywoman Schiavo was a Nurse Advocate and Small Business Owner who worked in the labor movement for more than 20 years. Throughout her career, Assemblywoman Schiavo helped deliver healthcare, including reproductive healthcare, to more than one million people. In the Northwest San Fernando Valley, she co-founded an organization that helped secure housing for Veterans experiencing homelessness, has delivered more than 50,000 meals to people in need, and increased resources to help keep our communities safe. Assemblywoman Schiavo lives in Chatsworth with her daughter Sofia where they love to hike in the Santa Susana Mountains.