FRESNO – Assemblymember Dr. Joaquin Arambula (D-Fresno) and the 31
st
Assembly District office will host a free Older Adult Wellness and Resource Fair on Saturday, September 28, at McLane High School in Fresno.
This event will be the first resource fair that Assemblymember Arambula has presented specifically focused on older adults. Since his election in 2016, Assemblymember Arambula has presented a series of free Community Health and Resource Fairs each spring and fall that include basic health services, health screenings, and a broad variety of resources to people in rural communities and underserved neighborhoods.
The Older Adult Wellness and Resource Fair will be held 9 a.m. to noon in the cafeteria and outdoor area at McLane High, 2727 N. Cedar Ave. The event’s collaborators include the Fresno Madera Agency on Aging, the Fresno State Mobile Health Unit, the Valley Caregiver Resource Center, the Central California Food Bank, Anthem Blue Cross, and more.
Addressing the needs of older adults is becoming increasingly important in California. The population of people in the state over the age of 60 is growing faster than any other age group, according to the California Department of Aging. By 2030, it’s projected that 10.8 million Californians will be an older adult, making up one-quarter of the state’s population.
Assemblymember Arambula said:
“It was important to me to host an event for older adults where they could obtain reliable information and resources conveniently in one place from trusted and respected partners. I hope seniors will see this as an opportunity to learn about a variety of services and programs aimed at protecting them and ensuring their health and well-being. And, we’ll have some fun to help make this fair a memorable, valuable, and worthwhile experience.”
The event will include a panel discussion about legal resources; a second panel discussion about health and wellness resources; booths staffed by participating agencies and organizations; flu shots and basic health screenings; bingo games; and a free food distribution. In addition, the fair will have interpreters who speak Spanish and Hmong.
Topics will include avoiding financial fraud and scams, preventing elder abuse, recognizing the signs of Alzheimer’s disease, and more.
Other participating agencies and organizations this Saturday are the Alzheimer’s Association, Fresno County Department of Social Services, Central California Legal Services, Contractors State License Board, the California Department of Financial Protection & Innovation, BoldAge PACE, WelbeHealth, Covered California, Fresno County Sheriff’s Office, Fresno Council of Governments, and more.
#####