SACRAMENTO, CA —
Today, California Governor Gavin Newsom signed into law the
California School Food Safety Act
, a landmark measure authored by Assemblymember Jesse Gabriel (D-Encino) that will make California the first state in the nation to prohibit public schools from serving foods containing six synthetic food dyes (Red 40, Yellow 5, Yellow 6, Blue 1, Blue 2, and Green 3) that have been linked to developmental and behavioral issues in children. Also known as Assembly Bill (AB) 2316, the enactment of this first-in-the-nation legislation could have major implications beyond California; historically, California’s laws have influenced broader changes in the food industry as manufacturers often opt to reformulate products nationally rather than create state-specific versions.
“California is once again leading the nation when it comes to protecting our kids from dangerous chemicals that can harm their bodies and interfere with their ability to learn,”
said Assemblymember Jesse Gabriel (D-Encino), the author of the
California School Food Safety Act
.
“This bipartisan law will empower schools to better protect the health and wellbeing of students and sends a strong message to manufacturers to stop using these harmful additives. I am grateful to Governor Newsom and Superintendent Thurmond for their partnership, and I hope that the overwhelming bipartisan support for this new law will encourage the federal government to take a more proactive role in protecting Americans from dangerous chemicals in our food supply.”
AB 2316 was introduced following a
report by the California EPA
,
which found that “consumption of synthetic food dyes can result in hyperactivity and other neurobehavioral problems in some children.” The study also noted that current FDA approvals of these chemicals are based on outdated, decades-old research and that the percentage of American children diagnosed with Attention Deficit/Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD) has increased dramatically in recent years.
“As Governor Newsom signs AB 2316 into law, I am proud to celebrate this victory for California’s children alongside my colleagues who share our commitment to healthy, safe school meals. We know that high quality nutrition is foundational to our students’ wellbeing and ability to learn. As someone who depended on school meals growing up, I know how critical it is that our children have access to food that is healthy and never harmful,”
said California State Superintendent of Public Instruction Tony Thurmond, who helped sponsor AB 2316.
“This is an important step forward to ensure that California’s schools are healthy and equitable learning environments for all.”
The signing of AB 2316 follows last year’s signing of the
California Food Safety Act
– also authored by Assemblymember Jesse Gabriel – another first-in-the-nation measure
which banned four dangerous chemicals from foods sold in California
. Also known as AB 418, the
California Food Safety Act
helped to spark a national conversation about the need for the U.S. to modernize its antiquated food safety laws. Notably, this past July the
FDA announced
its decision to ban the use of brominated vegetable oil (BVO) following a similar prohibition first legislated in California under AB 418.
Like the
California Food Safety Act,
AB 2316 would not ban specific foods or products, but rather encourage companies to make minor modifications to products sold in California and could help prompt a nationwide transition to safer alternative ingredients. AB 2316 is sponsored by Superintendent of Public Instruction Tony Thurmond, Environmental Working Group, and Consumer Reports, and is supported by a broad bipartisan coalition that includes more than 70 organizations representing doctors, teachers, nurses, scientists, environmentalists, and consumer protection advocates. The prohibitions in the bill go into effect on December 31, 2027.
Quotes About the Signing of the
California School Food Safety Act
“When we found out our schools were serving our kids foods containing chemicals linked to serious health problems, we were shocked,”
said award-winning actor and producers Morgan Freeman and Lori McCreary.
“The question we ask is why are we lagging behind the rest of the world when it comes to regulating food additives? We applaud Governor Newsom for taking a bold step to put an end to the use of harmful chemicals in school foods.”
“I have seen firsthand the devastating impact that harmful chemicals in our food supply can have, especially on children. Allowing these substances in school meals is not just a health issue—it’s an instance of the government failing in its duty to protect citizens,”
said Dr. Chris van Tulleken,
New York Times
bestselling author of ‘Ultra Processed People’.
“I thank Assemblymember Gabriel for introducing AB 2316 and applaud the Governor for signing it into law - a crucial step toward ensuring that our children are protected and given the opportunity to thrive in a healthy environment."
“I’m an older sister to a brother who lived with severe ADHD and through thoughtful curation of food and elimination of certain chemicals, my mother helped my brother thrive at school thus supporting not only him but his teacher and fellow students as a result. Thanks to Assemblymember Jesse Gabriel and Governor Newsom, we now have the opportunity to do the same thing for every California child in public school,”
said actress and activist Lesley-Ann Brandt.
###
Jesse Gabriel proudly represents the San Fernando Valley in the California State Legislature.