As anti-LGBTQ+ legislatures across the country attack the transgender community and restrict essential gender-affirming care, AB 2442—legislation to expedite licensure for health care providers committed to this vital care—now awaits the Governor’s signature.
SACRAMENTO, CA —
Democratic Caucus Chair Rick Chavez Zbur (D-Hollywood) has announced that his bill to expedite licensure for health care providers committed to providing gender-affirming care and mental health services has passed both houses of the Legislature and now awaits the Governor's signature. As the number of states enacting laws that restrict access to gender-affirming care continues to rise—from just four states in June 2022 to 26 states in 2024—California is once again stepping up to protect the right to bodily autonomy and improve the ability of transgender people to access the essential health care they need. This bill, sponsored by Planned Parenthood Affiliates of California (PPAC) and Equality California (EQCA), is a necessary response to strengthen California's network of affirming health care providers and protect access to care for out-of-state patients who are often forced to seek care in California due to restrictive policies in their home states.
"California has always been a beacon of hope for those seeking essential health care services, whether it's reproductive health or gender-affirming care. As MAGA-led legislatures across the country attack the transgender community and restrict the care they desperately need, this bill enables California to step up and meet the needs of those traveling here for the services banned in their states," said
Assemblymember Rick Chavez Zbur
. "AB 2442 reflects our commitment to ensuring that everyone, regardless of where they come from, can access the care they need without delay. By expediting the licensure process for providers dedicated to gender-affirming care, we are taking a critical step in protecting the health and rights of our most vulnerable populations."
The bill requires the expedited processing of licensure applications for medical and mental health providers who demonstrate a commitment to offering gender-affirming care within their licensed scope of practice. This provision is particularly crucial as many states now impose severe professional or criminal penalties on providers offering these services, making it increasingly difficult for patients to receive timely and appropriate care. In 2022, in the wake of the
Dobbs
decision, California similarly expedited licensure applications for abortion providers to ensure that there is an adequate health care provider workforce to provide urgent reproductive health care services.
"The Planned Parenthood affiliates in California are proud to provide gender affirming care to over ten thousand patients annually— knowing that all people must be able to access the care they need and deserve," said
Jodi Hicks, CEO/President of Planned Parenthood Affiliates of California
. "We hope to see AB 2442 signed into law so we can better meet the needs of TGI individuals by ensuring the health care provider workforce is equipped with providers across California that are trained and prepared to provide comprehensive and equitable gender affirming care to those who seek it in our state."
"Currently, over two dozen states across the country restrict or outright ban access to medically necessary health care backed by decades of research and supported by every major medical association in the U.S. — leaving many families in these states facing agonizing decisions about whether to relocate or travel out of state to access the essential health services they need," said
Equality California Executive Director Tony Hoang
. "In the face of these attacks, California must stand firm in its commitment to defend the right to bodily autonomy and protect access to essential health care. We thank the California Legislature for its unwavering commitment to protecting transgender lives and ensuring that all people have the right to access the care they need. As we celebrate this victory, we urge Governor Newsom to sign AB 2442 into law and ensure that California remains a bulwark against hateful and misguided anti-LGBTQ+ attacks."
The Governor has until September 30, 2024 to sign the bill.
Assemblymember Rick Chavez Zbur serves as the Democratic Caucus Chair for the California State Assembly and represents the 51st Assembly District, which includes Universal City, Hollywood, Hancock Park, West Hollywood, Beverly Hills, Westwood, West Los Angeles, Santa Monica, and other portions of Los Angeles.
CONTACT:
Vienna Montague, (916) 319-2051, Vienna.Montague@asm.ca.gov