SACRAMENTO, CA—
Today, California State Assembly Speaker Robert Rivas of Hollister appointed Bob Tiffany, a fourth-generation San Benito County resident and former elected official and independent small business owner, to the California Transportation Commission.
“Bob Tiffany shares my environmental values and priorities,” Speaker Rivas said. “He’s a strong community leader who will bring an open and inclusive perspective on transportation and climate issues. I’m confident Bob’s extensive civic and elected experience will be a boost for the Commission, and will reflect the interests of all Californians across our diverse state.”
A longstanding resident of San Benito County and Stanford University graduate, Tiffany formerly served on the Board of Supervisors, including during the height of the COVID-19 pandemic, when he focused on economic recovery and revitalization projects of existing businesses, infrastructure and transportation. As co-chair of the “Yes on Measure G, Fix our Roads” committee and a community advocate, he has focused deeply on transportation issues. He’s also served on several community boards, including as president of the San Benito County Business Council.
“Speaker Rivas’ environment and climate credentials are unparalleled, and I am grateful for his trust and appointment to the California Transportation Commission,” Tiffany said. “I am committed to bringing my decades of expertise as a community leader and public servant to tackle our state’s transportation challenges, and am eager to collaborate with my new colleagues, bringing a perspective and experience from rural communities, as we deliver smart and equitable transportation solutions for all Californians.”
Tiffany will join the 13-member commission, which is responsible for programming and allocating funds for the construction of highway, passenger rail, transit and active transportation improvements throughout California. The Commission also advises and assists the Secretary of the California State Transportation Agency and the Legislature in formulating and evaluating state policies and plans for California’s transportation programs.
“The California Transportation Commission plays a vital role in shaping innovative policies to meet the transportation needs of Californians,” Tiffany continued. “As we transition away from fossil fuels and non-renewable energy, it is critical we look at public transit and reliable and affordable electric vehicle and infrastructure options for every resident.”
Tiffany also holds a Master's degree from the UCLA School of Management.
###
Assembly Speaker Robert Rivas represents California’s 29th Assembly District, which includes all of San Benito County and portions of Monterey, Santa Cruz, and Santa Clara Counties. For a full biography of Speaker Rivas, click
here
.