SACRAMENTO, CA – Today, Assemblymember Damon Connolly (D-San Rafael) and colleagues presented their “A Call to Action” legislative package before the Assembly Higher Education Committee. This bill package targets sex discrimination and sexual harassment in California’s higher education institutions. This bill package includes
AB (Assembly Bill) 1790
, authored by Assemblymember Connolly, as well as legislation authored by Assemblymembers Fong, Alvarez, Hart, Irwin, Gabriel and Ortega, as well as two Senate Bills.
“
By implementing this legislative package, we can make our California State Universities safer for students and faculty by ensuring that sex discrimination is not slipping through the cracks and allegations of sexual harassment are being dealt with through the proper channels
,” said Assemblymember Damon Connolly. “I am proud to present this bill package along with my colleagues to make California higher education a safer place.”
Last year the California State Auditor’s office conducted an audit of the California State University (CSU) system to assess the handling of sexual harassment complaints against employees, and concluded that many campuses were not adequately or consistently investigating and addressing allegations of sexual harassment.
AB 1790
will require the California State University system to strengthen protections against sexual harassment and update their policies regarding how the Universities process sexual harassment complaints and allegations. These improvements were outlined in a 2022
report
conducted
by the California State Auditor assessing the CSU’s handling of sexual harassment complaints against employees.
These efforts will be critical to improving the livelihood and wellbeing of students at California State University campuses throughout the state.
AB 1790 passed out of the Assembly Higher Education Committee this afternoon with bipartisan support and will next be heard in the Assembly Appropriations Committee.
###
Assemblymember Connolly represents the entirety of Marin County and Southern Sonoma County