Bill would protect immigrant children from President-elect Donald Trump’s stated plan for mass deportations
Torrance, CA –
Assemblymember Al Muratsuchi (D-Torrance), Chair of the Assembly Education Committee, introduced Assembly Bill 49, a bill that would protect immigrant children from actions by U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) officers who enter school sites or child care facilities. The bill would prohibit school or child care employees from allowing ICE officers to enter a school site or child care facility for any purpose without providing valid identification, a written statement of purpose, a valid judicial warrant, and approval from the school district's superintendent or director of the child care center. The bill also would require that if an ICE official meets the requirements to enter a school site or child care facility, their access would be restricted to school or child care facilities where students or children are not present.
"All children have a constitutional right to attend public schools, regardless of immigration status," stated Assemblymember Muratsuchi. "Unfortunately, the threat of federal immigration officials coming onto school grounds to detain undocumented students or family members casts a shadow of fear over all California students. Students cannot learn if they are living in fear of being deported or separated from their family members. This bill is necessary because children should not be afraid to come to school, and parents should not be afraid to send their children to school."
As during his first term, there is an increased fear of raids by ICE officials at schools and child care centers as President-elect Donald Trump is threatening to deport millions of undocumented immigrants across the United States. President-elect Trump has also threatened to eliminate the U.S. Department of Education. According to the California State Superintendent of Public Instruction's office, this closure would risk around $8 billion in federal funds for California programs serving students with disabilities and low-income students.
Assemblymember Al Muratsuchi represents California's 66th Assembly District, which includes El Segundo, Gardena, Hermosa Beach, Lomita, Los Angeles, Manhattan Beach, Palos Verdes Estates, Rancho Palos Verdes, Redondo Beach, Rolling Hills, Rolling Hills Estates, San Pedro and Torrance. Muratsuchi is Chair of the Assembly Education Committee, Chair of the Assembly Select Committee on Aerospace, and a member of the Committees on Budget, Budget Subcommittee on Education, Higher Education, Natural Resources, and the Joint Legislative Committee on Climate Change Policies.
CONTACT:
Kerry Jacob, (310) 806-0893, Kerry.Jacob@asm.ca.gov