Assemblymember Rick Chavez Zbur honors LGBTQ+ Latina Nancy Sutley for her outstanding achievement in public service during the Latino Spirit Awards
Nancy Sutley honored on the California Assembly Floor Monday, May 6, 2024.
From Left: Assembly Minority Leader James Gallagher, Assembly Majority Leader Cecelia Aguilar-Curry, Nancy Sutley, Asm. Rick Chavez Zbur, Asm. Sabrina Cervantes, Assembly Speaker Robert Rivas.
SACRAMENTO, CA —
Assembly Democratic Caucus Chair Rick Chavez Zbur (D-Hollywood) nominated Nancy Sutley as a recipient for the Latino Spirit Awards. In an Assembly Floor ceremony Monday, the California Legislative Latino Caucus honored Sutley, who currently leads Los Angeles Mayor Karen Bass’ environmental, energy, and sustainability policy and programs as her Chief Sustainability Officer.
"As an LGBTQ+ Latina, Nancy Sutley has shattered glass ceilings while implementing some of the most important environmental and sustainability policies and legislation of our century," said Assemblymember Rick Chavez Zbur. "Her expertise has guided mayors, governors, and former President of the United States Barack Obama. It is an honor to recognize her for an outstanding achievement in public service, and as my nominee for the Latino Spirit Awards."
Nancy Helen Sutley, born in New York City in 1962, was raised in Queens by parents who immigrated from Argentina. She holds a master's degree in public policy from Harvard University and a bachelor's degree in government from Cornell University. Currently, Sutley is the Senior Assistant General Manager of External and Regulatory Affairs and Chief Sustainability Officer at the Los Angeles Department of Water and Power (LADWP). In this capacity, she supervises departments such as customer service, energy efficiency, water conservation, and environmental regulations. During her tenure at LADWP, she has initiated sustainability projects, led the establishment of the LaKretz Innovation Campus, and advocated for cleaner transportation. Prior to joining LADWP in 2014, Sutley chaired the White House Council on Environmental Quality, making her the first prominent LGBTQ+ person named to a senior role in the Obama Administration. There she played a pivotal role in environmental initiatives, including the 2013 Climate Action Plan. She has also held various positions in public service, including Deputy Mayor for Energy and Environment for Los Angeles and roles in state and federal environmental agencies.
Assemblymember Rick Chavez Zbur serves as the Democratic Caucus Chair for the California State Assembly and represents the 51st Assembly District, including Hollywood, West Hollywood, Beverly Hills, Westwood, Santa Monica, and portions of Los Angeles.
CONTACT:
Vienna Montague, (916) 319-2051, Vienna.Montague@asm.ca.gov