SACRAMENTO, CA
— Joint Authors Assembly Democratic Caucus Chair Rick Chavez Zbur (D-Hollywood) and Assemblywoman Sharon Quirk-Silva (D-La Palma) have announced that the
California Housing Security Act
advanced out of the California State Assembly Tuesday and to the California State Senate. AB 2498, will increase housing security by providing housing subsidies of up to $2,000 a month for up to two years to low-income former foster youth, older adults, veterans, adults with disabilities, people experiencing unemployment or homelessness, and recently incarcerated individuals, without regard to an individual's immigration status.
"One of the most cost-effective and compassionate ways of reducing the number of Californians experiencing homelessness is prevention, and empowering people who are currently housed to stay in their homes," said
Assemblymember Rick Chavez Zbur
. "
The State's 2023-2024 Master Plan for Aging
identifies housing subsidy programs as a key strategy for increasing housing stability for older adults and people with disabilities. Between 2022 and 2023, approximately 10,000 people became newly unhoused in California, and our response has resulted in fewer individuals than that number moving from the streets and into housing. We're losing the battle because we're not doing enough to prevent homelessness. AB 2498 will reduce homelessness by preventing our most housing-insecure Californians remain in their home when facing economic challenges."
"A stable home is the cornerstone of health, of work, of dignity. That is why this bill matters so much. Policy reports consistently show that rent subsidy programs are essential to preventing homelessness," said
Assemblywoman Sharon Quirk-Silva
. "We must guarantee that every Californian has access to a safe, affordable, and stable home. By putting prevention before intervention, AB 2498 empowers people to hold onto their homes and their dignity, even in tough times."
AB 2498 now moves to the California State Senate where it will be heard in the coming weeks.
Assemblywoman Sharon Quirk-Silva represents the 67th Assembly District, which includes the Orange County communities of Anaheim, Buena Park, Cypress, Fullerton, and La Palma, as well as the Los Angeles County communities of Artesia, Cerritos, and Hawaiian Gardens.
Assemblymember Rick Chavez Zbur serves as the Democratic Caucus Chair for the California State Assembly and represents the 51st Assembly District, which includes Universal City, Hollywood, Hancock Park, West Hollywood, Beverly Hills, Westwood, West Los Angeles, Santa Monica, and other portions of Los Angeles.
CONTACT:
Vienna Montague, (916) 319-2051, Vienna.Montague@asm.ca.gov