(SACRAMENTO, CA) –
In the wake of numerous tragic mass shootings at schools, active shooter drills have unfortunately become normalized for students nationwide. Due to there being no overall guidance for how to implement these drills in California, some schools have received outcry from parents and school staff for not being properly notified of a drill occurring leading to mass confusion and panic. In one case,
a school official pretended to shoot students during a drill
. AB 1858: The Safe and Prepared Schools Act is now headed to Governor Newsom for his signature and will ensure there are guidelines for schools to follow on how to responsibly conduct active shooter drills.
We shouldn’t subject our children to unnecessary trauma during active shooter drills,”
said Assemblymember Chris Ward (D-San Diego).
“The Safe and Prepared Schools Act will set clear standards for schools across California on how to conduct these drills responsibly, while also ensuring that students have easy access to mental health resources. These drills should be preparing our students to stay safe in the event of a mass shooting on campus without causing more harm than good.”
The Safe and Prepared Schools Act
will task the California Department of Education with the creation of comprehensive procedural guidance for school shooting drills, focusing on preparedness, clear communication, and minimizing the trauma associated with active shooter drills. The guidance will include mandatory parental notification both in the week leading up to and immediately following a drill, requirements that drills be age-appropriate, school-wide announcements at the start of drills, and access to local resources for addressing any issues that may arise. Additionally, the bill will prohibit the use of simulated gunfire in these drills. Local education agencies and schools will have the flexibility to integrate this policy into their specific school safety plans.
Research conducted by Everytown for Gun Safety in collaboration with the Georgia Institute of Technology’s Social Dynamics and Wellbeing Lab
has shown a troubling correlation between participation in active shooter drills and significant increases in depression, anxiety, stress, and other mental health issues among students.
Others argue there is little evidence to support the efficacy of school shooting drills in preparing students for a tragic event.
“There’s no right way to prepare for the worst possible scenario, but active school shooter drills are shown to cause stress and anxiety, and our children deserve better,”
said Cassandra Whetstone, a volunteer with the California chapter of Moms Demand Action.
“Under this bill, schools that are conducting active shooter drills will be required to use a trauma-informed lens with our children’s well-being front and center, as it should be. We thank Assemblymember Ward for his commitment to the fight against gun violence and for the well-being of our children.”
The governor has until October 30, 2024, to sign or veto the bill.