The Governor has signed 8 bills authored by Assemblymember Alex Lee, legislation that tackles a range of issues including access to potable water, sustainable transportation, food security and more.
“My bills will bring meaningful impacts to our communities statewide, from accelerating zero-emission transportation and addressing food insecurity to ensuring safe drinking water for the most vulnerable,” said Assemblymember Lee. “I am committed to meeting Californians’ most pressing needs. I thank the Governor for signing these important bills, and I look forward to continuing our collaborative effort in making California a better place for everyone.”
AB 2503
streamlines train electrification projects by enabling transit agencies to more rapidly electrify their fleets, improve rail service, and cut emissions. The bill exempts zero-emission railway projects on existing rails from the requirements of the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA).
AB 2454
ensures access to safe drinking water in disadvantaged communities. The bill requires owners of domestic wells serving rental properties to participate in free water testing programs.
AB 3229
tackles food insecurity with a long-term solution by evaluating the steps necessary to transition the CalFresh Fruit and Vegetable EBT Pilot Project into a permanent program.
AB 2367
raises awareness of students with disabilities by allowing highway signs to be created for state special schools including the California School for the Deaf-Fremont.
AB 2325
allows Bay Area Rapid Transit (BART) to improve its financial management structure by consolidating responsibility in a Chief Financial Officer position.
AB 2304
closes a loophole related to disclosure when tenants are party to a civil eviction process. It ensures that mobile home tenants are not unfairly penalized on rental applications if they have won their civil eviction cases.
AB 2346
provides additional compliance options for local governments to meet the state’s organic waste procurement requirements.
AB 3291
ensures that youth and young adults with developmental disabilities who are cared for at home receive the necessary support through caregiver succession planning.