Sacramento, CA
– Assemblymember Bauer-Kahan’s bill, AB 2085, has passed the Assembly. AB 2085 creates a more streamlined process for clinic development and eliminates the ability for localities to arbitrarily discriminate based on the care delivered.
“Abortion rights mean nothing without abortion access. Building clinics is essential for California to remain true to its promises as a reproductive freedom state, but bad-faith actors are blocking this essential access, said
Assemblymember Bauer-Kahan (D-Orinda)
. “AB 2085 expands health care access to our state’s most vulnerable communities.”
AB 2085 requires a standard 60 day timeline for approvals of developments for reproductive rights clinics, and prohibits denials based on standards not in place at the time of application. In specified zoning for healthcare, retail, or parking, these clinics be approved if they fulfil the localities objective planning standards.
Though California has enacted extensive protections for abortion within the state, there are still major gaps when people seek healthcare. Reproductive rights organizations are trying to keep up with the demand by expanding, but are often blocked by local opposition, bad faith lawsuits, and unnecessary regulatory hurdles. In the city of Fontana, the city enacted a moratorium on new construction that specifically blocked a new clinic from being built. San Bernardino County is one of California’s biggest healthcare deserts, and access to care is being sacrificed for political points. AB 2085 will end these arbitrary delays for essential healthcare.
“Even in California where the right to abortion is constitutionally protected, attacks on sexual and reproductive health care remain,” says Molly Robson, VP of Government Affairs at Planned Parenthood Affiliates of California, “AB 2085 helps bridge the gap in access to health care by ensuring a straightforward and unbiased process for permitting and opening community health centers. This bill is critical to ensuring that California can truly be a reproductive freedom state and meet the needs of patients seeking care in our state.”
###