SACRAMENTO
- Assemblywoman Pilar Schiavo announced today the introduction of AB 2294, a bill that incentivizes the hiring of new employees by expanding businesses eligible for tax credits with an incentive to hire people from under-resourced communities, supporting businesses and encouraging investment in good jobs for people who need them most.
“AB 2294 is a win-win, giving businesses the ability to hire new employees from communities that are looking for good paying jobs,” said Assemblywoman Schiavo. “I’m excited to introduce legislation that supports businesses, creates good high paying jobs, and supports those looking for employment.”
The New Employment Credit (NEC) was established in 2013 to incentivize the hiring of individuals who have historically faced barriers to employment, including veterans. This bill would expand the businesses eligible to hire new employees in the form of tax credits, eliminating certain location requirements, expanding to more qualified employees, and reaching a much broader range of businesses.
The Legislative Analyst’s Office states that the low amounts of claimed credits through this program suggest that the existing tax credit limitations have been challenging for businesses to use, citing the credits’ high wage threshold, small credit amount, complexity, uncertainty, and interaction with other credits as contributing to low participation.
“AB 2294 seeks to break down barriers and limitations, fully realizing the NEC’s potential by creating more job opportunities for those who have difficulty landing jobs and who may be at risk of homelessness,” said Assemblywoman Schiavo.
In addition to the legislative progress made to fight for worker protections and bring good jobs to Assembly District 40, Assemblywoman Pilar Schiavo’s office will be hosting a community Job & Resource Fair In partnership with America’s Job Center of California. Local employers like LADWP, Northeast Valley Health Corporation, California Children's Academy, and more will be in attendance and are looking to fill open positions. We encourage everyone to join us in exploring promising career opportunities. Those interested can
RSVP HERE
.
Event Details:
Date:
Saturday, March 2, 2024
Time:
9:00 a.m. - 1:00 p.m
Location:
New Horizons: Sam’s Cafe Banquet Hall (8726 Haskell Ave, North Hills, CA 91343)
###
Assemblywoman Pilar Schiavo was elected to the California State Assembly in November of 2022 to represent the 40th Assembly District, representing the Northwest San Fernando Valley and the Santa Clarita Valley. Upon her election, she was appointed as Assistant Majority Whip by the Speaker of the Assembly and now serves as Chair of the Assembly Committee on Military and Veterans Affairs. Prior to her election, Assemblywoman Schiavo was a Nurse Advocate and Small Business Owner who worked in the labor movement for more than 20 years. Throughout her career, Assemblywoman Schiavo helped deliver healthcare, including reproductive healthcare, to more than one million people and fought to put critical dollars in the pockets of workers. In the Northwest San Fernando Valley, she co-founded an organization that helped secure housing for Veterans experiencing homelessness, co-founded an organization that delivered more than 50,000 meals to people in need, and increased resources to help keep our communities safe. Assemblywoman Schiavo lives in Chatsworth with her daughter Sofia where they love to hike in the Santa Susana Mountains.