SACRAMENTO, CA.
— Today, La Jolla Playhouse was recognized as the 77th Assembly District’s 2024 Nonprofit of the Year by
Assemblymember Tasha Boerner
(D-Encinitas).
Each year, California Assemblymembers and State Senators select nonprofits from their district to be recognized for their work to provide services to those in need, promote social change, and improve the quality of life in their communities.
“La Jolla Playhouse is a jewel in San Diego and has contributed to the artistic culture of the region. If you want to see what is next in the American theatre landscape, it is happening at La Jolla Playhouse,” stated
Assemblymember Boerner
. “I am incredibly proud of the creativity that comes from this place and the many programs that they provide to keep our youth engaged with the arts.”
“It is truly an honor to be named the 77th Assembly District Nonprofit of the Year. Throughout our history, La Jolla Playhouse has strived to be a leader in the theatre industry through a steadfast commitment to developing new plays and musicals for San Diego and beyond. Equally as important has been our connection to the community through a multitude of Learning and Engagement programs, as well as the annual WOW Festival, and we deeply appreciate this recognition by Assemblymember Boerner,” said
La Jolla Playhouse Managing Director, Debby Buchholz
.
La Jolla Playhouse (The Playhouse) was founded in 1947 by Hollywood actors Gregory Peck, Dorothy McGuire, and Mel Ferrer as a summer stock retreat. They have produced over 120 world premieres and sent 36 productions to Broadway. These plays include
The Who’s Tommy
,
Jersey Boys
,
Memphis
,
Come From Away
,
Lempicka
, and
The Outsiders.
The Playhouse has earned 38 Tony Awards and in 1993 received a Tony Award for Outstanding Regional Theatre.
###
Assemblymember Tasha Boerner represents the 77th District, which encompasses Carlsbad, Encinitas, Solana Beach, Del Mar, Coronado and the coastal communities of La Jolla south to Downtown San Diego. You can learn more about Assemblymember Boerner at
a77.asmdc.org
,
Facebook
,
Instagram
, or
Twitter/X
.