(Sacramento, CA)
September 3, 2024 – Dr. Jasmeet Bains (D-Delano) wrapped up her legislative session early Sunday morning with seven bill proposals sent to Governor Gavin Newsom’s desk.
“I am thrilled to deliver on essential issues for Kern County, expanding healthcare access, protecting seniors, and cutting bureaucratic red tape. I’m looking forward to working more on these issues in the next legislative session starting in January,” said Dr. Bains.
The Grow Our Own Bill was at the top of Dr. Bains’ legislative priorities this session. This proposal requires the University of California to build a medical school in Kern County once certain funding requirements are met. On a more technical level, it also creates an endowment in the California State Treasury that can accept funding from different sources.
Other healthcare bills moving forward this session are AB 2376 and AB 892.
AB 2376 cuts red tape, enabling healthcare facilities to accept more patients for addiction and substance use disorder treatments. Current law restricts the types of facilities that can offer care, including a requirement to segregate substance abuse disorder patients despite posing no risk of contagion.
AB 892 ensures that Kern Hospital Authority continues to be on strong financial footing and ensures this healthcare center’s place in serving Kern families for years to come.
A trio of bills from Dr. Bains’ work as the Chair of the Assembly Committee on Aging and Long-Term Care, AB 2689, AB 2541, and AB 2620, all help push forward strategic initiatives to support aging and older Californians. AB 2689 extends the option to contribute to Alzheimer's research on a tax return, which the governor has already signed. AB 2541 requires local law enforcement to work with experts and create guidelines on responding to wandering associated with Alzheimer’s disease, autism, and dementia. AB 2620 makes changes to the California Commission on Aging to make it easier to participate and engage with.
Finally, AB 1122 is a critical bill protecting mariners working in our ports. As of 2022, California's ports processed about 40 percent of all containerized imports and 30 percent of all exports in the United States. California's tugboats, towboats, and barges help move $34 billion worth of agricultural and food products, connecting American farmers with global markets and American supermarkets with international producers.
“Everything I’ve worked on for the last two years in my first session delivers on the commitments I made when I began my journey to proudly represent Kern County,” said Dr. Bains.
# # #