SACRAMENTO
– Assemblymember Ash Kalra (D-San José) and AB 2441 co-sponsors celebrate the bill’s passage out of the Assembly Education Committee yesterday. AB 2441 will decrease law enforcement involvement in student behavioral issues at school and provide educators the flexibility they need to respond appropriately to student behavior.
“In partnership with our dedicated sponsor coalition, AB 2441 has overcome a significant legislative hurdle. With all the known negative impacts of using law enforcement to discipline students, we aim to empower teachers and administrators to make decisions that prioritize the success and safety of their students in the classroom,” said
Assemblymember Kalra
. “AB 2441 will bring California closer to utilizing evidence-based approaches to address student misbehavior and combatting the school-to-prison pipeline.”
Current law mandates educators to involve law enforcement in various student behavior incidents, leading to unnecessary calls and negative outcomes for students. Studies show student interactions with law enforcement can harm academic success and increase involvement in the criminal legal system. Further, studies have demonstrated school police presence does not decrease student crime rates and may lead to more student misconduct.
“In the pursuit of educational equity, passing AB 2441 is not just a step forward—it's a declaration that young minds deserve schools fostering their mental, social, and emotional well-being. Teachers must have the freedom to forge transformative bonds with students without fear of penalization or criminalization,” said
Jessica Black, National Movement Building Director at Black Organizing Project
. “Education is about nurturing futures, not feeding pipelines; it's time to design schools where youth thrive.”
“AB 2441 is crucial to keeping students in school and empowering educators with the flexibility to respond to situations in ways that are based on an individual student's needs and circumstances. Black students and students with disabilities are disproportionately impacted by referrals to law enforcement. For example, officers handcuffed students with disabilities 41% of the time, compared to 15% of students without disabilities. When students were referred to law enforcement, officers handcuffed Black students 20% of the time, compared to only 9% of White students. We thank the Assembly Education Committee for passing AB 2441,” said
Oscar Daniel Lopez, Senior Staff Attorney with Disability Rights California.
Assemblymember Bryan (D-Los Angeles) is a principal co-author of AB 2441. The bill is also coauthored by Assemblymember Bonta (D-Oakland) and Senators Bradford (D-Gardena) and Skinner (D-Berkeley).
Co-sponsors of AB 2441 include Alliance for Boys and Men of Color, American Civil Liberties Union-California, Black Organizing Project, Black Parallel School Board, Coleman Advocates for Children and Youth, Disability Rights California, Dolores Huerta Foundation, Public Counsel, and Social Justice Learning Institute.
Prior legislative attempts on this issue have stalled in the Assembly Education Committee, most recently AB 1323 (Kalra) that was introduced last year. AB 2441 is now headed to the Assembly Appropriations Committee.
###
Assemblymember Ash Kalra
represents California’s 25th Assembly District, which encompasses the majority of San José, including downtown and open space areas in southeast Santa Clara County. He was first elected in 2016, becoming the first Indian American to serve in the California Legislature in state history, and was re-elected to his fourth term in 2022. Assemblymember Kalra is the Chair of the Committee on Judiciary and also serves as a member on the Housing and Community Development, Local Government, and Natural Resources committees.