SACRAMENTO - Assemblywoman Pilar Schiavo announced today the introduction of AB 2499, a bill aimed at extending unpaid sick leave to cover instances when an individual or their family has experienced violent or traumatic events. This groundbreaking legislation seeks to address the gaps in current labor laws, ensuring that survivors and their families have the necessary time to heal without the added stress of potential job loss.
“I am proud to announce the introduction of AB 2499, which will give crime survivors the opportunity to heal and recuperate after a violent or traumatic event. AB 2499 will broaden access to unpaid sick leave to include when an individual or a family member has survived a traumatic event,” stated Assemblywoman Schiavo.
This legislation comes in response to statistics revealing the adverse impacts of crime on workers, with one in six victims of violent crime reporting job loss or demotion due to the need for time off, and 53% of domestic violence survivors losing their jobs due to their circumstances.
Representatives for Legal Aid at Work shared their support for the bill: “No one should have to choose between helping a loved one secure safety from violence and keeping their job. This bill would empower survivors to take specific steps to ensure their safety with their family there to support them when they need it.”
Additionally, Tinisch Hollins, Executive Director of Californians for Safety and Justice, said, “Californians with a family member victimized by domestic violence, sexual assault, stalking or other forms of violence should be allowed to take a few days off of work to provide support to their loved ones without having to worry about losing their job. Our collective safety requires us to ensure all families have the ability to heal and feel safe. We risk exacerbating cycles of crime and harm if we fail to provide adequate pathways for healing in our communities, and we are proud to stand with Asm. Schiavo in our shared fight to achieve safety and justice for everyone in California.”
AB 2499 represents a critical step forward in Assemblywoman Schiavo's ongoing commitment to supporting crime survivors and strengthening worker protections. By providing a pathway for healing and safety, this legislation aims to contribute to breaking cycles of crime and fostering a community where every member can thrive.
###
Assemblywoman Pilar Schiavo was elected to the California State Assembly in November of 2022 to represent the 40th Assembly District, representing the Northwest San Fernando Valley and the Santa Clarita Valley. Upon her election, she was appointed as Assistant Majority Whip by the Speaker of the Assembly and now serves as Chair of the Assembly Committee on Military and Veterans Affairs. Prior to her election, Assemblywoman Schiavo was a Nurse Advocate and Small Business Owner who worked in the labor movement for more than 20 years. Throughout her career, Assemblywoman Schiavo helped deliver healthcare, including reproductive healthcare, to more than one million people and fought to put critical dollars in the pockets of workers. In the Northwest San Fernando Valley, she co-founded an organization that helped secure housing for Veterans experiencing homelessness, co-founded an organization that delivered more than 50,000 meals to people in need, and increased resources to help keep our communities safe. Assemblywoman Schiavo lives in Chatsworth with her daughter Sofia where they love to hike in the Santa Susana Mountains.