Last week,
during remarks at the swearing-in ceremony of Assembly members
, Speaker Robert Rivas announced a new rule that reduces the number of bills Assemblymembers can introduce over the 2025-26 Legislative Session.
This “bill limit” will allow legislators to invest additional energy on issues that matter most to Californians, such as lowering the cost of living, building more housing and improving public services. It also encourages legislators to spend more time on oversight and accountability, ensuring existing programs remain efficient and effective.
“Everyone in this room has good and important ideas,” Speaker Rivas told a packed Assembly chamber on December 2. “But our time and energy here are limited. So, this session, we are lowering the number of bills legislators can introduce from 50 to 35. Because we want every leader in this room to have the greatest possible bandwidth to focus on laws that uplift affordability and prosperity.”
Read Speaker Rivas' Swearing-in Speech
The Speaker’s announcement fulfills a commitment from his
inauguration
. “We must return our attention to the basics,” Rivas said in June 2023. “This will mean focusing less on how many bills we can pass and more on the impact we are having. Sometimes this will mean going back and fixing something, rather than passing a new law.”
Both returning and new members of the Assembly praised the Speaker’s new rule, introduced by Assemblymember Blanca Pacheco in
HR 1
, and shared his commitment to focusing on California’s most pressing issues.
California Assembly Members Praise New Strategy
Majority Leader and Assemblymember Cecilia Aguiar-Curry (D-Winters):
“The decision to institute more responsible bill limits was a wise decision on behalf of Speaker Rivas. We’ve adopted rules for the coming two-year session that will allow our colleagues to focus on quality public policy, not quantity. And, it will serve Californians well.”
Rules Committee Chair and Assemblymember Blanca Pacheco (D-Downey):
“A lower bill limit will improve legislative efficiency and ensure a more focused, thoughtful approach to lawmaking. By dedicating more time to evaluating each proposal, we can engage in meaningful debate and craft solutions that address the most critical challenges facing Californians.”
Appropriations Chair and Assemblymember Buffy Wicks (D-Oakland):
“As lawmakers, our success should be measured by our ability to solve problems our constituents care about, not by how many bills we introduce. The choice to prioritize quality over quantity will allow each of us to devote our finite time and energy to the policies that matter most to Californians. It’s a shift that will better ensure our efforts make a meaningful difference in the lives of our constituents.”
Budget Chair and Assemblymember Jesse Gabriel (D-Encino):
“The reduced bill load is an important change that will provide more opportunities for thoughtful deliberation, greater oversight of government spending and programs, and stronger policies that benefit California families and taxpayers. I applaud Speaker Rivas for his leadership in implementing this important reform.”
Caucus Chair and Assemblymember Rick Chavez Zbur (D-Hollywood):
“Assembly Democrats are already hard at work exploring what government can do to improve the lives of all Californians — lowering the cost of housing, food, insurance and utility bills. In order to accomplish big things, we must focus on what’s important. I applaud Speaker Rivas for fresh leadership that prioritizes our limited resources to deliver results for California families.”
Transportation Chair and Assemblymember Lori Wilson (D-Suisun City):
“As legislators, our priority is to craft thoughtful, impactful laws that improve the lives of Californians. Reducing the bill limit to 35 ensures that we can focus on quality over quantity, dedicating the necessary time and energy to address the most critical issues facing our communities. This change not only helps us create more meaningful and effective legislation, but also provides our staff the bandwidth to fully develop policies that improve affordability, prosperity, and, above all, the quality of life for the people we serve. Additionally, it allows us to engage more deeply with our colleagues’ proposals, offering thoughtful input and fostering meaningful dialogue to refine and strengthen legislation across the board. I applaud this decision as a step toward more purposeful, collaborative, and effective lawmaking.”
Assemblymember Mark González (D-Los Angeles):
“Assembly Speaker Robert Rivas’ decision to lower the bill cap for legislators is a commendable and forward-thinking step toward ensuring the Legislature focuses its time and energy on critical issues such as housing affordability, public safety, and protecting vulnerable communities. This thoughtful approach builds public trust by ensuring legislators prioritize greater oversight and meaningful action to address California’s biggest challenges. Speaker Rivas’ leadership demonstrates a strong commitment to effective governance that puts the well-being of ALL Californians first.”
Assemblymember John Harabedian (D-Claremont):
“The bill limit rule is a move toward efficiency, transparency, and good governance. By setting reasonable limits, we can prioritize more intentional legislation that best serves the people of California. I’m thankful to the Speaker for his leadership in focusing our house to deliver for our communities.”
Assemblymember Nick Schultz (D-Burbank):
“I fully support lowering the bill limit. With 35 bills across 2 years, state legislators will have plenty of opportunities to focus on policies that improve the daily lives of our constituents and build a more sustainable future for all Californians.  Moving forward, it’s essential that we prioritize efficient and effective legislation, as opposed to high volume.”
Capitol Community Supports Bill Limit Decision
After Speaker Rivas’ announcement, several media outlets, state Senators and Capitol community members spoke favorably of the Legislature's bill cap.
CalMatters reported that Speaker Rivas’ announcement last week “was
met with applause
from Assembly members” and that “early reaction to the idea from legislators was positive,” including Senators from both parties:
Senator
Lola Smallwood-Cuevas (D-Los Angeles)
: “What this election has taught us is that governing, and particularly in California, is a very complex business. I think the voters are saying, we need you all to think about how to do things differently.”
Senator Roger Niello (R-Fair Oaks):
“It causes each of us to set priorities, and if we have more than 35 ideas, we have to prioritize within that.”
Attorney Chris Micheli wrote optimistically in response to the new rule
on social media
(“I do hope these significant rule changes will allow more thorough discussion and debate of legislation”) and wrote a
thank-you note to the Speaker
.
Assembly and Senate lawmakers approved the new bill limit rules on December 2.
###