Assemblymember Alex Lee released the following statement after the Governor vetoed the Assemblymember’s bill AB 3031, which aimed to improve the health, safety, and wellbeing of LGBTQ+ community members.
“It’s critical for us to ensure that everyone can live authentically and inclusively,” said Assemblymember Lee. “I authored AB 3031 to recognize the lived experiences of LGBTQ+ community members, and inform policies and programs for our community. While I’m disappointed that this important piece of legislation was vetoed, I am committed to advancing the state’s progress as the bastion of LGBTQ+ rights. I will continue to advocate and fight for the voices of our LGBTQ+ community members to be heard.”
AB 3031 proposed to create a state-level LGBTQ+ Commission with the goal of advising the Legislature and Governor on policies affecting the LGBTQ+ community. The bill was sponsored by Equality California (EQCA) and the Bay Area Municipal Elections Committee (BAYMEC).
“We are disappointed in Governor Newsom’s decision to veto AB 3031. While California has come a long way in the fight for full, lived equality for LGBTQ+ people, our state is not immune to anti-LGBTQ+ hate and violent extremism sweeping the country,” said Equality California Executive Director Tony Hoang. “The establishment of a statewide LGBTQ+ Commission would have provided a crucial platform to address the growing challenges facing LGBTQ+ people and sent a clear message that California is committed to leading the way toward a more inclusive, equitable future. We are grateful to Assemblymembers Lee and Low for championing this important bill and for their commitment to ensuring that the diverse voices of LGBTQ+ people are heard at the highest levels of government.”
“BAYMEC is deeply disappointed by Governor Newsom's veto of AB 3031, which would have established California’s LGBTQ+ Commission,” said BAYMEC President Drew Lloyd. "As one of California’s oldest and most influential organizations championing the rights and advancement of the queer community, BAYMEC remains committed to working with the legislature and state leadership to uplift and fully empower our LGBTQ+ community. Our goal is clear: to build a more equitable California for All and ensure that progress never stops.”