SACRAMENTO, CA
– Today Governor Gavin Newsom signed Assembly Bill 2985, authored by Assemblymember Gregg Hart (D-Santa Barbara), to provide mental health information to jurors following criminal trials involving violent felonies.
“Jurors serving on criminal trials can be asked to examine the most violent crimes they have ever encountered, yet they are prohibited from discussing their experiences with anyone while going through the process,” Assemblymember Hart said. “This bill will help our judicial system acknowledge and support the mental wellness needs of community members completing their civic duty, advancing peace of mind and improving the overall juror experience.”
Each year, thousands of Californians serve as jurors on violent felony trials, where they are exposed to graphic evidence, including crime scene photos, autopsy presentations, and detailed and tragic testimonies. In recent years, jurors in Santa Barbara County have been asked to evaluate evidence in very difficult cases involving murder, sexual assault, and other horrible events. In one
high-profile Central Coast trial
, jurors spoke to the press about the impacts the trial had on their wellness, including nightmares, strained relationships with spouses and children, and other symptoms associated with exposure to trauma.
While the Judicial Council has previously identified temporary signs of distress that can follow jury duty and developed
educational information
to help inform jurors about mental wellness upon the completion of their service, there is currently no distribution method for this important information and it is not getting into the hands of jurors who need it.
This issue was brought forward by Assemblymember Hart’s District Director, Ethan Bertrand, who saw firsthand the impacts that a trial involving significant violence can have while serving as a juror. This bill was supported by mental health professionals, criminal justice advocates, and the Santa Barbara County District Attorney’s Office.
“While prosecutors, peace officers, and criminal defense attorneys never get used to the violent, traumatic, and horrific acts that we are exposed to on a daily basis, this exposure is expected as an unfortunate reality of a public service career in the criminal justice arena. Jurors, on the other hand, are often unprepared for the very difficult issues that they will be exposed to while fulfilling their public service as the triers of fact,” Santa Barbara County District Attorney John Savrnoch said. “It is important for jurors to be supported in taking care of their wellness following service on a trial that involves serious violence.”
AB 2985 will help jurors find peace of mind after service on a trial involving violent felonies, enhancing their wellness and improving their overall experience in providing a critical function for our judicial system. The passing of this legislation affirms Assemblymember Hart’s commitment to improving access to mental health services for all, ensuring that everyone has the support they deserve.
Gregg Hart represents the California Assembly's 37th Assembly District, which includes Santa Barbara, Goleta, Carpinteria, Montecito, Summerland, Buellton, Solvang, Lompoc, Guadalupe, Santa Maria, Orcutt, and Nipomo. He currently serves as the Chair of the Joint Legislative Audit Committee and Assembly Select Committee on the Nonprofit Sector.
CONTACT:
Jimmy Wittrock, (916) 319-2037, jimmy.wittrock@asm.ca.gov