(Sacramento) Last week, Assemblymember David Alvarez (D-San Diego) introduced Assembly Bill 2075, which would grant residents of Long-Term Care Facilities the right to access a designated support person or a healthcare and social service provider in person.
Between 2020 and 2023, Covid-19 cost the lives of millions of Americans and irrevocably disrupted the lives of millions more. In 2023, a workgroup was formed to generate recommendations for Long-Term Care Facilities and rules on visitation in the event of a state of emergency. The working group found that visitation is essential for preventing social isolation and loneliness among people who reside in Long-Term Care Facilities, and visitors, in particular family interaction, played a critical role in identifying care issues and advocating for care.
Assembly Bill 2075 aims to formalize these recommendations into law and help our most vulnerable populations receive the attention and care they require without being cut off from vital interaction with their loved ones.
“During COVID-19, families were separated and often prohibited from visiting their loved ones,” said
Assemblymember Alvarez
. “Anyone with loved ones in a facility knows the importance of staying connected with their family members, even during the pandemic. To help families stay connected with their loved ones, the State Legislature created a working group to investigate the problem and suggest solutions to improve communication. AB 2075 is the result of hard work by experts and stakeholders invested in improving the overall care of all Californians, and it aims to provide compassionate care while ensuring continued safety.”
"Separating long term care facility residents from their loved ones and other critical support persons during the COVID pandemic was an enormous mistake that caused isolation and misery throughout the state. We cannot save lives by cutting residents off from the people and things that make their lives worth living." Said
Tony Chicotel CANHR
California Long-Term Care Facility Access Policy Workgroup
Recommendations Report for State Legislature
October 5, 2023
https://aging.ca.gov/download.ashx?lE0rcNUV0zZdWSyVFWyTTA%3d%3d
###
The 80th Assembly District includes the communities of Barrio Logan, Logan Heights, Sherman Heights, Bonita, Lincoln Acres, Otay Mesa and San Ysidro, along with the cities of Chula Vista, National City and Imperial Beach.