SANTA CLARITA
– On September 5th, 2024, at 11:30 AM, Assemblywoman Pilar Schiavo held a press conference to announce significant legislative wins that protect the financial well-being of Californians. The focus was on AB 2424, the "Protecting Homeowners During Foreclosure" bill, and AB 2863, the "Click to Cancel" bill. Both bills, designed to safeguard consumers' hard-earned money and ensure greater transparency, have successfully passed through the legislature and are now awaiting the Governor's signature before becoming law.
AB 2424, the "Protecting Homeowners During Foreclosure" bill, provides critical safeguards for homeowners facing the threat of foreclosure. This legislation mandates greater transparency in the foreclosure process, ensuring that homeowners have access to clear information and are treated fairly by lenders. By protecting homeowners from predatory practices, AB 2424 helps prevent families from losing their homes and shields them from the financial devastation that can accompany foreclosure.
AB 2863, the "Click to Cancel" bill, empowers consumers by making it easier for them to cancel online subscriptions. This bill addresses the growing issue of companies deliberately making the cancellation process difficult, which often results in consumers being charged for services they no longer want or need. By requiring companies to offer straightforward and accessible cancellation options, AB 2863 protects consumers from being unfairly charged and helps them better manage their finances.
“We know too many people in our community are struggling just to get by and need our help. These bills are about protecting the pocketbooks of everyday Californians,” said Assemblywoman Pilar Schiavo. “With our ‘Click to Cancel’ bill, we’re leading the nation by being the first state to require straightforward and accessible cancellation options, putting an end to deceptive subscription traps. This first-in-the-nation comprehensive legislation ensures that consumers won’t fall victim to unfair charges. Coupled with our efforts to protect homeowners from predatory foreclosure practices, we’re leading the way to protect our community from unwanted costs and putting money back in the pockets of Californians.”
“Consumers have had enough of the seemingly impossible process of canceling automatic subscriptions,” said CFC Executive Director Robert Herrell. “Consumers should be able to easily click or call to cancel. Additionally, California's foreclosure system far too often strips people in communities of color of their home equity and harms their financial well-being, making them easy prey to predatory loan brokering. Homeowners shouldn't lose their equity due to scams or fraud. CFC's bills in these areas keep consumers from wasting their time and money.”
You can watch the press conference in its entirety
HERE
. Interested outlets can reach out for professional quality video of the press conference.
###
Assemblywoman Pilar Schiavo was elected to the California State Assembly in November of 2022 to represent the 40th Assembly District, representing the Northwest San Fernando Valley and the Santa Clarita Valley. Upon her election, she was appointed as Assistant Majority Whip by the Speaker of the Assembly and now serves as Chair of the Assembly Committee on Military and Veterans Affairs. Prior to her election, Assemblywoman Schiavo was a Nurse Advocate and Small Business Owner who worked in the labor movement for more than 20 years. Throughout her career, Assemblywoman Schiavo helped deliver healthcare, including reproductive healthcare, to more than one million people. In the Northwest San Fernando Valley, she co-founded an organization that helped secure housing for Veterans experiencing homelessness, has delivered more than 50,000 meals to people in need, and increased resources to help keep our communities safe. Assemblywoman Schiavo lives in Chatsworth with her daughter Sofia where they love to hike in the Santa Susana Mountains.