SACRAMENTO—Three bills aimed at confronting the state’s Missing and Murdered Indigenous People (MMIP) epidemic will move forward after the Senate Public Safety Committee today approved measures granting state peace officer status for the first time in California history to tribal law enforcement, streamlining the alert system when Native Americans are missing and improving state tracking of violence on tribal lands. Assemblymember James C. Ramos (D-San Bernardino authored the proposals which have already been approved in the Assembly.
Ramos, the first and only California Native American serving in the legislature, said, “California is fifth in the nation in the numbers of unsolved MMIP cases. Surely we can do more to prevent, investigate and prosecute these cases, and make tribal communities – and the state – safer.”
AB 2138
would establish a three-year pilot project under the Department of Justice granting
California state peace officer status
to qualified tribes and the officers they employ. The Department of Justice (DOJ) would monitor, evaluate and support the program and have the authorization to suspend or terminate participation in the program for gross misconduct or failure to comply with program requirements. Requirements for granting peace officer status would include completing and adhering to the state’s Peace Officer Standards and Training standards and procedures. The tribal community would also need to enact a law or resolution to make records available in accordance with the public records act as it relates to policing.
Thirteen states and the federal government already grant peace officer status to tribal police. The Yurok Tribe and California Indian Legal Services are co-sponsors of the measure.
Yurok Tribal Chairman Joe James said, “I thank Assemblymember Ramos for creating this mechanism to quickly get the word out when Indigenous people go missing or are at risk.” In citing his support for AB 1863 James stated, “We supported previous legislation that created this alert because it will help reduce the disproportionate rate of Missing and Murdered Indigenous People cases in California. The next generation of Indigenous California should not have to live in a world where they have to worry about family members going missing or worse. With the updates in this legislation, we will take action to address the remaining root causes of this complex crisis.”
A second Ramos bill,
AB 1863, would require the California Highway Patrol (CHP) to develop policies and procedures related to the Feather Alert
, a notification system similar to the AMBER alert used when Native Americans are missing and in danger. The Feather Alert took effect in January 2024 after passage of AB 1314 (Ramos, 2022).
Feather Alert updates would include developing policies for the system, requiring CHP to provide a reason for the denial, directing CHP to make all reasonable efforts to locate the individual and updating the definition of danger to a person’s safety.
Ramos said the changes would help ensure an effective and responsive alert system. He added the changes evolved after an
informational hearing
and discussions with tribes, law enforcement and CHP.  AB 1863 is co-sponsored by Bear River of the Rohnerville Rancheria, Pechanga Band of Mission Indians and the Yurok Tribe.
Pechanga Band of Indians Vice-Chair Catalina Chacon Said, “I am grateful to Assemblymember Ramos for introducing the Feather Alert and putting forth AB 1863 this session to directly address concerns from those at the forefront of this crisis.” Vice Chair Chacon added, “Allowing our tribal governments to communicate directly with the State respects our sovereignty, saves critical time, and will further help us to bring our missing home safely.”
Bear River of the Rohnerville Rancheria Chairwoman Josefina Frank said, "We carry the strength of our ancestors to ensure our tribal citizens are safe and protected. The work that has been done on AB 1863 has provided Tribal Nations their voices back to ensure we end MMIP.” Chairwoman Frank continued, “We are the voice and movement for those we have lost, those who are hurting the generations to come.”
James added, “I thank Assemblymember Ramos for creating this mechanism to quickly get the word out when Indigenous people go missing or are at risk.” In citing his support for AB 1863 James stated, “We supported previous legislation that created this alert because it will help reduce the disproportionate rate of Missing and Murdered Indigenous People cases in California. The next generation of Indigenous Californians should not have to live in a world where they have to worry about family members going missing or worse. With the updates in this legislation, we will take action to address the remaining root causes of this complex crisis.”
AB 1863 is sponsored by the Bear River of the Rohnerville Rancheria, the Pechanga Band of Mission Indians and the Yurok Tribe.
The third measure,
AB 2695, requires the DOJ to align its records and data with the federal National Incident-Based reporting system
to assist law enforcement and others understand where criminal incidents related to MMIP are occurring and also include a notation indicating whether domestic violence incidents took place in Indian Country. AB 2695 is sponsored by Attorney General Rob Bonta.
###
Assemblymember James C. Ramos proudly represents the 45th Assembly district that includes the Cities of Fontana, Highland, Mentone, Redlands, Rialto and San Bernardino. He is the first and only California Native American serving in the state’s legislature. Ramos chairs the Assembly Budget Subcommittee #6 on Public Safety.