Irvine, CA
– On Saturday, Assemblywoman Cottie Petrie-Norris and Second Harvest Food Bank of Orange County hosted a Harvest Solutions Farm Volunteer Event in Irvine during National Volunteer Month to help harvest seasonal produce so that Orange County residents have consistent access to nutritious food creating a foundation for community health and well-being
. Volunteers harvested over 12,000 pounds of broccoli that will be distributed to individuals and families served by Second Harvest Food Bank of Orange County's distribution network of over 300 partners and pantries.
“Second Harvest Food Bank of Orange County does so much work to feed tens of thousands of individuals and children each week who are struggling with food insecurity in our communities,” said Assemblymember Cottie Petrie-Norris (D-Irvine). “In spite of the forecast, over 100 people, mostly families and children, came out to Harvest Solutions Farm to volunteer and help their neighbors in need.”
April is National Volunteer Month, a time to celebrate and recognize the contributions of volunteers. It is an opportunity to join the impact of volunteerism and encourage more people to get involved in their communities. It is a great month to inspire people to take action against hunger and to raise awareness for those facing food and nutritional insecurity in our communities.
"The need for food in Orange County remains high as we have seen elevated food prices due to inflation and the sunsetting of pandemic-era aid,” said Claudia Keller, CEO, Second Harvest Food Bank of Orange County. “Harvest Solutions Farm helps ensure that Second Harvest is able to steadily supply nutritious produce to the community in this time of increased need. And we are so thankful for the support of our wonderful volunteers and elected officials who continue to help ensure that Harvest Solutions Farm is a success."
Since the launch in August 2021, Harvest Solutions Farm has produced over 5 million pounds of fresh, nutritious produce that has been distributed to those experiencing food and nutrition insecurity in our community. Last year, volunteers helped harvest nearly 13,000 pounds of fresh produce during the Assemblywoman’s Harvest Solutions Farm volunteer events.