SANTA CLARITA -
Assemblywoman Pilar Schiavo today announced the allocation of $593,000 in funding to the Child & Family Center for crucial infrastructure and safety enhancements. This investment comes as a vital step to ensure the continued delivery of quality care and services for our communities in need of mental health, substance use treatment, and domestic violence prevention services.
Members of the media, community leaders, and the public are invited to attend this check presentation event and learn more about the impact this investment will have on the future of the Child & Family Center.
Event Details:
Date:
Friday, February 9, 2024
Time:
4:00 p.m. - 5:00 p.m
Location:
Child & Family Center (21545 Centre Pointe Pkwy, Santa Clarita, CA 91350)
The Child & Family Center has long been a cornerstone of support for Medi-Cal recipient communities, offering essential care and assistance to individuals facing various challenges. Recognizing the importance of sustaining and enhancing these services, Assemblywoman Schiavo championed the allocation of funds to address critical needs within the Center.
The awarded funds will facilitate several key improvements, including:
Implementation of a robust phone system capable of withstanding power outages and emergencies, ensuring uninterrupted communication with clients who could be in danger or in crisis.
Acquisition of a dedicated vehicle to transport domestic violence survivors to safety, providing a crucial lifeline for those escaping dangerous situations.
Installation of bulletproof glass at entry points to enhance security measures and safeguard both staff and visitors.
Upgrades to technology, wellness facilities, and overall infrastructure at community spaces within the Center.
Nikki Buckstead, CEO of the Child & Family Center stated, “Child & Family Center is thrilled to be the recipient of this infrastructure funding through Assemblywoman Schiavo’s office. Quite simply, our government contracts don’t cover the costs of the ongoing necessary upgrades and safety measures our Center needs. This funding will also allow us to purchase a much-needed minivan for our Domestic Violence Program, which will allow the safe passage of the women and children who are escaping violent and dangerous situations and transport them to our confidential emergency shelter.”
“I am committed to ensuring that vital community organizations like the Child & Family Center have the resources necessary to keep our community safe from domestic violence. By investing in infrastructure and safety improvements, we’re working to empower the Child & Family Center to continue their invaluable work in supporting individuals and families in need.” said Assemblywoman Schiavo.
###
Assemblywoman Pilar Schiavo was elected to the California State Assembly in November of 2022 to represent the 40th Assembly District, representing the Northwest San Fernando Valley and the Santa Clarita Valley. Upon her election, she was appointed as Assistant Majority Whip by the Speaker of the Assembly and now serves as Chair of the Assembly Committee on Military and Veterans Affairs. Prior to her election, Assemblywoman Schiavo was a Nurse Advocate and Small Business Owner who worked in the labor movement for more than 20 years. Throughout her career, Assemblywoman Schiavo helped deliver healthcare, including reproductive healthcare, to more than one million people and fought to put critical dollars in the pockets of workers. In the Northwest San Fernando Valley, she co-founded an organization that helped secure housing for Veterans experiencing homelessness, co-founded an organization that delivered more than 50,000 meals to people in need, and increased resources to help keep our communities safe. Assemblywoman Schiavo lives in Chatsworth with her daughter Sofia where they love to hike in the Santa Susana Mountains.