SACRAMENTO, CA —
Last week, Assemblywoman Esmeralda Soria hosted a roundtable with law enforcement leaders to discuss public safety and law enforcement challenges facing the Central Valley.
Today, the Assemblywoman introduced AB 1960 to address rising retail theft across the state:
Assembly Bill 1960 - Retail Theft - Excessive Taking Enhancement
AB 1960 provides prosecutors the ability to hold criminals accountable by imposing a stiffer sentence for retail theft.
The bill reinstates a tiered penalties enhancement system, if the value of the stolen or damaged property is exceptionally high. Specifically, it would provide a sentence enhancement up to
five years
when the property loss is more than $50,000.
AB 1960 is supported by the Madera County District Attorney, Merced County District Attorney, California District Attorneys Association as well as the Orange County District Attorney.
Reactions of Law Enforcement Leaders & Assemblywoman Soria
“This legislation helps us make sure the punishment matches the crime. This will make sure that people who steal large amounts, over $50,000, are held accountable. It allows us to zero in on those who take advantage of and victimize our neighbors in this way. It’s time for greater accountability in California.” – Sally Moreno, Madera County District Attorney
“Retail theft and organized retail theft, have become an increasingly growing problem in California the last few years. Enhanced penalties to hold criminals accountable will make a significant difference in protecting our businesses and those who frequent them. I am thankful for Assemblywoman Esmeralda Soria, who is taking a proactive approach to bring justice to our community.” – Paco Balderrama, Fresno Police Chief
“Our communities are hurting. Crime, especially retail theft, is not only a problem in my district.” said Assemblywoman Soria. “This is an issue affecting the entire state. We must address it with urgency and action. This bill will do that and our cities will be safer as a result.”
Assemblywoman Soria looks forward to introducing legislation that will also address the fentanyl crisis and other public safety challenges facing the communities of the Central Valley.
In addition to introducing AB 1960, Assemblywoman Soria is a co-author on AB 1772 which will revise Prop. 47 to make certain crimes a felony.
###