SACRAMENTO
-
Today, Assemblymember Mia Bonta’s (D - Oakland) bill, AB 1975, otherwise known as Food as Medicine, was vetoed by Governor Gavin Newsom. AB 1975 would have made medically supportive food and nutrition services a permanent covered benefit for Medi-Cal recipients. The bill was part of the California Legislative Black Caucus’s 2024 Reparations Priority Bill Package.
“Thanks to the ongoing advocacy from our bipartisan coalition of supporters, AB 1975, Food as Medicine, made it all the way to Governor Newsom’s desk,”
said Assemblymember Mia Bonta.
“While I’m disappointed this bill could not be signed I appreciate the Governor’s support for this policy as outlined in his veto message. As Chair of the Assembly Health Committee, I remain committed to using my lived experiences to advance policies that will expand access to healthy food. I still remember opening the fridge as a child to see only a few stalks of celery and a jar of peanut butter. My mom told me it was because we were on a special diet, but really, it was all we could afford.”
Despite our state being the
primary source
of the nation’s fruits and vegetables,
over 20% of Californians are food insecure
, accounting for approximately 8 million people lacking access to properly nutritious food. Diets rich in nutritious food have been proven to be effective strategies for preventing
heart disease
,
diabetes
,
strokes
, and numerous other chronic conditions.
“With the veto of AB 1975, California has missed an opportunity to become the first state in the nation to affirm that access to healthy food is healthcare and should be a Medicaid benefit. We are so thankful for the steadfast commitment to this cause from Assemblymember Bonta and the California Legislative Black Caucus. We are ready to roll up our sleeves and get to work to make the provisions that would’ve been afforded by AB 1975 a reality,”
said Katie Ettman, Deputy Director, Fullwell.
“I introduced this legislation to combat systemic issues related to health. Black Californians face disproportionate rates of heart disease, strokes, and diabetes, all of which can be mitigated by a healthy diet. Give us an apple, not angioplasty. Give us a smoothie, not a stent. Give us cauliflower, not a cesarean. I am proud of the conversations this bill advanced surrounding our most vulnerable communities and look forward to continuing this dialogue next year,”
added Assemblymember Mia Bonta.
AB 1975 was inspired by the work of former Alameda County Supervisor, Wilma Chan who in 2017 spearheaded
ALL IN Alameda County. An initiative designed to address issues at the intersection of poverty and health, launched a series of food as medicine pilot programs intended to address these high levels of food and nutrition insecurity and chronic health conditions.
###
Assemblymember Mia Bonta
represents California’s 18
th
Assembly District encompassing the East Bay including Oakland, Alameda, and Emeryville. She also chairs the Assembly Health Committee.