FRESNO – Assemblymember Dr. Joaquin Arambula (D-Fresno) and the 31
st
Assembly District office will host three Community Health and Resource Fairs in October, beginning this Saturday, October 19, in Fresno.
Since his election in 2016, Assemblymember Arambula has presented free resource fairs nearly each spring and fall throughout Fresno County to bring basic health services and screenings as well as resources information to people in rural communities and underserved neighborhoods. Information is offered about education, immigration services, legal services, social services, and much more. (The COVID-19 pandemic forced the suspension of these fairs in 2020 and 2021, but the Assemblymember and the 31
st
Assembly District office during that period focused on free COVID-19 testing and vaccinations as well as food distributions.)
The October 19 fair will be held at Wesley United Methodist Church in Fresno.
Flu vaccinations will be offered at all three events.
Assemblymember Arambula collaborates with cities, agencies, and community-based organizations for each resource fair. Prime partners for the fall 2024 events are the Fresno State Mobile Health Unit, Poverello House, the Central California Food Bank, Anthem Blue Cross, and Sierra Health Foundation.
Assemblymember Arambula said:
“The health and well-being of our communities have always been among my top priorities, especially for those who live in underserved and rural areas. Too often, they have limited or no access to health care services. These free events are coordinated in collaboration with our dedicated partners. We offer important health screenings and information about a range of resources that can provide services and support to help people lead healthier and better lives.”
Here is the schedule for this fall’s Community Health and Resource Fairs:
October 19
– 9 a.m .to 1 p.m. at the Wesley United Methodist Church, 1343 E Barstow Ave., Fresno 93710.
(Note: the Poverello House won’t be at this event.)
October 24
– 9 a.m. to 1 p.m. at the Selma Senior Center, 2301 Selma St., Selma 93662.
October 31
– 9 a.m. to 1 p.m. at Fresno City College’s West Fresno Center, 600 E. Church Ave., Fresno 93706
(Note: this fair falls on Halloween, so partners and collaborators are being encouraged to dress in costume.)
#####