FRESNO – Assemblymember Dr. Joaquin Arambula (D-Fresno) today is issuing his statement about his bill, Assembly Bill 1840:
“I want to thank my Legislative colleagues for their strong, passionate support today of Assembly Bill 1840 and sending this important bill to the Governor’s desk.
“AB 1840 does
not
create a new home ownership assistance program for a specific group of people, nor does it give away free money. Already,
anyone can apply
who meets the existing California Dream for All loan program’s financial criteria as a first-time homebuyer.
“My bill simply clarifies the language to make it clear that undocumented immigrants can apply – once again,
if they meet all the criteria.
That includes securing a bank loan or mortgage. Successful applicants have to repay the loan, without interest, when they sell the home. In addition, 20 percent of the appreciation on that home’s value must be paid.
“AB 1840 is not a bill about immigrant policies. It is not a bill about the housing crisis. We know that no single bill can solve those issues. This is a bill about fairness.
“AB 1840 is about providing an opportunity to hard-working, responsible people who dream of owning a home and passing that legacy to their children – a dream that we all have for all our families in California. And, that includes undocumented immigrants who have lived here for decades and pay their taxes. They have Social Security numbers or ITINs, which are Individual Taxpayer Identification Numbers. They are people who pay millions of dollars into our systems and should be able to receive the same benefits as everyone else.
“They are our co-workers, our neighbors, the families whose children attend our schools, and the people we see at church. They are the people we see at our community parks and at our local stores. They are entrepreneurs and the people who volunteer when emergencies strike.
“They are leaders in our cities and towns.
“We are a nation of immigrants, and we should remind ourselves the value and humanity of the people coming here who make our economy better – an economy that is the fifth-largest in the world.
“I believe in a California where we
all
can pursue our dreams – and we can do it together. And we can be successful, together.”
#####