Sacramento, California - Assembly Bill 2429, authored by Assemblymember David Alvarez (D-San Diego) was signed into law by Governor Newson earlier this month.  This legislation would require school districts in California to incorporate lessons on the dangers of fentanyl into their curriculum.
“Fentanyl is now the leading cause of death for Americans aged 18 to 49, and as a parent, it is critical that we educate our adolescents of methods of protection and prevention from this illicit drug,” said Assemblymember Alvarez.  “AB 2429 incorporates fentanyl into existing high-school health curriculum, creating space in the classroom for our youths to ask questions and protect themselves from the dangers of fentanyl and counterfeit pills. I want to thank Governor Newsom for signing this vital legislation.”
Fentanyl, initially intended for pain relief and anesthesia, morphed into the substance driving the deadliest drug epidemic in history. Opioid-related fatalities surged by 121% between 2019 and 2021, prompting significant state investment in mitigation efforts.  In San Diego County, fentanyl is to blame for 63% of all overdose deaths. AB 2429 aims to address this by mandating that school districts with existing health courses include comprehensive lessons on fentanyl's dangers in their curriculum, covering its basics, risk factors, identification of lacing, and response to overdose.
“Educating young people and students on the dangers of fentanyl is a critical harm prevention strategy and will help students be able to recognize fentanyl and assist in an emergency,” stated Chairwoman Nora Vargas of the San Diego County Board of Supervisors. “There is no one-size solution to this crisis, but providing education about the dangers of fentanyl is a good first step in ensuring the safety and well-being of our communities."
Assembly Bill 2429 is supported by San Diego County (Sponsor), County Health Executives Association of California (CHEAC), California Emergency Nurses Association, and California Association for Health, Physical Education, Recreation & Dance. More information on the bill can be found
here
.