ALHAMBRA, CA
– Yesterday, Assemblymember Mike Fong (D-Alhambra) honored 16 educators at his Second Annual Outstanding Educator Awards. Held at the Rosemead Community Center, the event celebrated educators, from elementary school teachers to postsecondary instructors, who have shown exceptional dedication to the betterment of their students and the communities in which they serve.
In honor of Teacher Appreciation Month, the Outstanding Educator Awards recognizes and celebrates amazing educators in the 49th State Assembly District and their commitment to uplifting and supporting their students. The 49th State Assembly District includes the cities of Alhambra, Arcadia, El Monte, Monterey Park, Rosemead, San Gabriel, San Marino, South Pasadena and Temple City, and the unincorporated areas of Pasadena and San Gabriel.
The honorees were selected from over a hundred nominations submitted by students, colleagues and members of the community throughout the month of May.
As Chair of the Assembly Higher Education Committee, Assemblymember Mike Fong understands the potential of education to uplift individuals and entire communities, and the important role educators have in not only facilitating the learning experience, but also serving as role models and motivators.
“Last year, we started this tradition because I truly believe in the power and promise of education to uplift everyone in our community, and the people who make it happen each and every day deserve recognition,” said Assemblymember Mike Fong. “I am honored to continue this tradition this year and celebrate these amazing educators, who are truly changing lives.”
Over a hundred people attended the awards ceremony, including elected officials, school board members and friends and family members of the 16 honorees.
Honorees:
Amanda Kasuyama, Oak Intermediate School, Temple City Unified School District (USD)
Amy Ngo, Alhambra High School, Alhambra USD
Carina Quan, Dr. Doug Sears Learning Center, Temple City USD
Dottie Burkhart, Mark Keppel High School, Alhambra USD
Holly Lang, Marengo Elementary School, South Pasadena USD
Izumi Suzuki, Carver Elementary School, San Marino USD
Janae Williams, Highland Oaks Elementary, Arcadia USD
Jose Sanchez, Alhambra High School, Alhambra USD
Katy Chen, South Pasadena Middle School, South Pasadena USD
Kevin Tong, Alhambra High School, Alhambra USD
Kimberly Valentine, Moor Field Early Elementary Education, Alhambra USD
Lisa Clelland, LeGore Elementary, El Monte City School District (SD)
Lucy Nargizyan, East Los Angeles College
Minh Anderson, Temple Intermediate School, Garvey SD
Riley Saxon, Temple City High School, Temple City USD
Scott Castroll, Garvey Intermediate School, Garvey SD
###