SACRAMENTO — Assemblymember Dawn Addis (D-Morro Bay) introduced a bill that will require mobilehome parks to have more comprehensive preparedness plans to protect vulnerable Californians during emergencies.
Assembly Bill 2022
, known as the Mobilehome Emergency Preparedness Act, additionally requires mobilehome parks to make this information easily accessible to all residents.
In recent years, California has grappled with devastating natural disasters, including wildfires and flooding. Beginning in December 2022, the state experienced severe winter storms, prompting emergency declarations from both the state and federal government. The Central Coast was hit particularly hard – Monterey, Santa Cruz, and San Luis Obispo counties were all deemed major disaster areas by President Biden.
"When I was first sworn into the Assembly, our communities faced unprecedented storms, including devastating damage and loss of life. This was especially the case for residents in mobilehome parks and those living in high risk flood areas. AB 2022 is an essential, preventative measure to ensure that our communities and neighbors can react, respond, and find safety during emergencies."
AB 2022 is sponsored by the Golden State Manufactured-Homeowners League and the Legal Aid Network.
"We applaud Assemblymember Dawn Addis for taking on this issue," said Kendall Jarvis, the Lead Disaster Relief Attorney for Legal Aid of Sonoma County. "This bill will address specific risks faced by mobile and manufactured home park residents by requiring parks to have working fire hydrants, access to entrance and exit points for evacuation and resident access to gas shut off valves during an emergency. Legal Aid supports this legislation and truly believes it will help save lives moving forward."
This bill now awaits referral to a committee in the State Assembly.
Dawn Addis was elected to the California State Assembly in 2022 to represent the coastal 30th Assembly District, which includes large portions of San Luis Obispo and Monterey Counties and the south-eastern area of Santa Cruz County.
CONTACT:
Julie Cravotto, 916-319-2030