Irvine, CA
—
Assemblywoman Cottie Petrie-Norris recognized Second Harvest Food Bank of Orange County as the 73rd Assembly District 2024 Nonprofit of the Year during a Harvest Solutions Farm volunteer event in Irvine attended by 120 volunteers, who harvested 20,000 pounds of cabbage that will be distributed to individuals and families served by Second Harvest’s distribution network of 362 partners and pantries.
“Second Harvest Food Bank of Orange County has been nourishing our community for more than 40 years, providing fresh and nutritious food to our most vulnerable neighbors who struggle with food and nutritional insecurity,” said
Assemblywoman Cottie Petrie-Norris (D-Irvine).
“I am proud to recognize Second Harvest as the 2024 Nonprofit of the Year for their longstanding commitment to ensuring our communities have consistent access to nourishing food and helping address food insecurity in Orange County.”
“Second Harvest Food Bank of Orange County is truly honored to receive the Nonprofit of the Year award from Assemblywoman Cottie Petrie-Norris,” said
Claudia Bonilla Keller, CEO, Second Harvest Food Bank of Orange County.
“Since 1983, with the support and collaboration of community partners and elected officials, we have served those facing food and nutritional insecurity in Orange County. Assemblywoman Petrie-Norris has been a wonderful anti-hunger advocate of the Food Bank, and we look forward to continued partnership toward the fulfillment of our vision of an Orange County with food and nutritional security for all.”
Since April 2023, Assemblywoman Petrie-Norris has hosted successful volunteer events at the Harvest Solutions Farm in Irvine in partnership with Second Harvest Food Bank. Hundreds of volunteers have helped harvest over 25,000 pounds of fresh produce. Since the launch in August 2021, Harvest Solutions Farm has produced over 5 million pounds of fresh, nutritious produce that has been distributed to those experiencing food and nutrition insecurity in our community.
Second Harvest Food Bank of Orange County provides dignified, equitable and consistent access to nutritious food, creating a foundation for community health. Their partner network includes houses of worship, schools, after-school programs, colleges and universities, senior centers, shelters for the unhoused, soup kitchens and transitional housing facilities, with sites at 362 locations throughout the county.
Second Harvest Food Bank was founded in 1983 as the Food Distribution Center by the Council of Orange, Society of St. Vincent de Paul. In 1997, the food bank was rebranded and named Second Harvest Food Bank of Orange County. Second Harvest moved from its location in Orange to Irvine 10 years later.
In fiscal year 2022-23, Second Harvest Food Bank distributed 36.3 million pounds of food to an average of 393,000 neighbors in need each month. Second Harvest is a member of the Feeding America network and was named one of Orange County’s 2023 Top Workplaces by the Orange County Register.
Each year, California legislators honor a
Nonprofit of the Year
for their district. This year, Assemblywoman Petrie-Norris received over 110 nominations from constituents for nonprofit organizations serving the 73rd Assembly District and all of Orange County. Past Nonprofit of the Year honorees include: Trellis (2023), Alzheimer’s Orange County (2022), Pacific Marine Mammal Center (2021), Families Forward (2020), and Save Our Youth (2019).