(Sacramento, CA)
September 24, 2024 – Dr. Bains’ dual efforts to address the impacts of and study Alzheimer's disease are now both signed into law after a flurry of bill signatures from Governor Gavin Newsom over the weekend.
“Protecting and supporting our aging population is a cornerstone of my work in Sacramento as the first practicing physician to chair the Aging and Long-Term Care Committee,” said Dr. Bains.
“These changes in the law all help in different ways, and I look forward to seeing positive outcomes.”
AB 2541, signed into law on Sunday, helps local law enforcement and Peace Officer Standards and Training (POST) work with experts and create response plans for wandering associated with Alzheimer’s disease, autism, and dementia.
Over 70% of counties in California do not have a rapid response program or registry to aid in finding a missing person with a cognitive impairment.
More than 60% of the people diagnosed with Alzheimer’s disease will wander at some point. Nearly 50% of children with autism will engage in wandering behavior. These instances of wandering increase the chances of individuals needing assistance from or coming into contact with local law enforcement.
Earlier during the legislative session, AB 2689 was signed into law, which extends the option to contribute to Alzheimer's research on tax returns voluntarily.
According to data from the California Franchise Tax Board, for the past six years, voluntary contributions to fund Alzheimer's research have raised more than half a million dollars annually, providing research dollars to California scientists to help end the disease. In 2024, the CDPH Alzheimer's Disease Program awarded approximately $20 million to seven recipients for research projects that will run from 2024 through 2028.
Since 1997, California tax-payers have generously donated more than $25 million to Alzheimer's research through this option on their tax returns.
“In my experience as a doctor treating patients, including patients struggling with Alzheimer’s, I know firsthand how difficult it is not just for the patient but for the family that takes care of them. We must do everything we can to support patients in addition to their families and caregivers that take care of them,” said Dr. Bains
Research performed by the California Department of Public Health (CDPH) showed that in 2019, about 660,000 Californians were living with Alzheimer’s disease. Put another way, this is roughly 11% of the nation’s disease prevalence. The same report also detailed that between 2019 and 2040, a doubling in the number of Californians living with Alzheimer's disease and related dementias is expected.
Older age does not cause Alzheimer's, but it is the most important known risk factor for the disease. The number of people with Alzheimer's disease doubles about every five years beyond age 65. About one-third of all people age 85 and older may have Alzheimer's disease.
“Caring for older generations is part of our social fabric and values. We must continue to invest in resources and programs that improve the quality of life for our aging population,” said Dr. Bains.
# # #
NOTE:
You can also listen to Dr. Bains discuss her experience as a caregiver on the Look West Podcast episode about aging here:
https://a35.asmdc.org/press-releases/20240520-dr-jasmeet-bains-talks-aging-california-look-west-podcast