(Sacramento) Today, the Assembly Higher Education Committee passed Assembly Concurrent Resolution 147, authored by Assemblymember David Alvarez (D-San Diego). ACR 147 designates November 8, 2024, as “California’s First-Generation College Celebration Day.” The measure would urge all higher education institutions in the state to celebrate this day and recognize the significant role of first-generation college students in developing the state’s future workforce.
“As a first-generation college graduate and former Puente student in HS and TRIO McNair Scholar, I have firsthand experienced these remarkable programs that lead to student’s success.” said Assemblymember Alvarez. “I’ve also worked for the TRIO Program and understand the genuine commitment that staff has for the students they serve. Without these program efforts, many of our first-generation students would not be completing their higher education dreams.” “We must acknowledge at the State Legislature the importance of these programs by celebrating an official day on November 8th.”
“MANA de San Diego is grateful to Assemblymember Alvarez for his support of first-generation college students and his advocacy to have our State acknowledge the significant contributions they bring to California.” said Cristina Sanchez-Kerr, MANA de San Diego. “As an organization focused on promoting the upward mobility of Latinas, we know degree completion is a critical tool for upward mobility. With decades of working to support the educational and professional goals of Latinas, we have seen first-hand the resilience, determination, and courage firstgeneration college students exemplify in their pursuit of their degrees and are proud to support ACR 147.”
ACR 147 identifies programs that have positively influenced and supported first-generation college students whether on their way to or during their higher education journey. It also celebrates the federal Higher Education Act of 1965 and supports first-generation college students with opportunities and equity in completing their desired degree programs.
This measure is supported by MANA De San Diego (Sponsor), Community College League of California and the Faculty Association of California Community Colleges. For more information, please contact the Office of Assemblymember Alvarez at (916) 319-2080.