[San Francisco, CA]
– Assemblymember Rebecca Bauer-Kahan (D-Orinda ) has introduced AB 56, groundbreaking legislation aimed at addressing the growing mental health crisis among adolescents caused by excessive social media use. Partnering with sponsor, Attorney General Rob Bonta, the bill will require social media platforms to prominently display black box warning labels, consistent with recent calls to action by the U.S. Surgeon General.
“Our children’s mental health is too high a price to pay for the engagement-driven practices of social media companies,”
said Assemblymember Bauer-Kahan
. “AB 56 ensures that families are armed with clear, actionable information to understand these dangers and make decisions that prioritize their children’s well-being.”
An increasing volume of research highlights the significant risks associated with social media use among young people, including heightened rates of depression, anxiety, and suicidal thoughts. Currently, 95% of teens report using at least one social media platform, with over one-third saying they use social media almost constantly. Studies have shown this excessive usage correlates with increased rates of depression, anxiety, eating disorders, and disrupted sleep patterns. Despite the growing evidence, social media companies have failed to be transparent about the risks.
AB 56 takes direct aim at this problem by requiring platforms to prominently display Surgeon General-endorsed black box warning labels to all users. These warnings will:
Appear upon a user’s first log-in.
Be shown at least once weekly for a minimum of 90 seconds.
These labels are designed to be equitable and effective, ensuring that public health information reaches users consistently.
“Social media companies have demonstrated an unwillingness to tackle the mental health crisis, instead digging in deeper into harnessing addictive features and harmful content for the sake of profits. It is our responsibility to make sure consumers have access to information that may affect their health, so they can make the best choices for themselves and their families,"
said Attorney General Rob Bonta
. "Social media warning labels are an equitable and transparent way to communicate the risks that social media engagement poses to young users. Warning labels alone are not a panacea, they are another tool in the toolbox to address the growing mental health crisis and protect future generations of children."
“When it comes to protecting kids from the risks of social media, California has always been a leader, and that continues today with this legislative proposal to make sure that people who use social media will be warned about its negative effects,”
said James P. Steyer
, Founder and CEO of Common Sense Media. “Just like we needed seat belts in cars and warning labels for alcohol, we now need digital safety standards for social media platforms. Common Sense Media applauds Attorney General Bonta and Assemblywoman Bauer-Kahan for their leadership, and we look forward to working together to pass this important bill."
Support
AB 56 has the backing of key advocates, including:
Office of Attorney General Rob Bonta (Sponsor)
Common Sense Media
With this legislation, California leads the way in addressing the youth mental health crisis and holding social media platforms accountable for their impact on public health.