Sacramento, California
- The California Assembly Committee on Higher Education unanimously passed Assembly Bill 2633, authored by Assemblymember David Alvarez (D-San Diego). This legislation allows the California State University (CSU) to award joint undergraduate, graduate, and doctoral degrees in partnership with international institutions.
“The district I represent shares a border with Mexico, therefore, providing greater access to higher education for our binational residents is important for our region’s success,” said Assemblymember Alvarez. “This bill would strengthen our cross-border partnerships by providing a new opportunity for our California State University students to cultivate global perspectives through pursuing an international joint degree program.”
Research from the James A. Baker Institute for Public Policy at Rice University highlights the limited collaboration and academic mobility between the United States and Mexico compared to other key trading partners. Despite this, U.S. universities are actively fostering international partnerships and joint degree programs. Institutions like Johns Hopkins, Columbia University, and the University of San Diego lead the way with established joint-degree partnerships, and the University of Arizona recently began collaborating with Universidad Autónoma Chapingo in Mexico for agricultural research.
“As a sponsor of AB 2633, I believe that this bill recognizes the value of international partnerships and would empower CSU students to pursue educational opportunities abroad for academic, cultural and scholarly exchange,” said Professor Armando Vazquez-Ramos, President of the California-Mexico Studies Center. “Moreover, AB 2633 helps to pave the way for a brighter future of academic excellence and global engagement within the CSU system.”
Assembly Bill 2953 is supported by California-Mexico Studies Center, Inc. (Sponsor), Latino Education and Advocacy Days (LEAD), Imperial Valley Economic Development Corporation, the San Diego Organizing Project, and the City of Chula Vista Deputy Mayor Alonso Gonzalez.