Sacramento, CA
– As part of the California State Assembly’s annual celebration of Women’s History Month, Assemblymember Lisa Calderon (D – Whittier) recognized Ms.
Barbara A. Fitzgerald
as Legislative Woman of the Year.
Barbara Fitzgerald is a practicing attorney, specialized in all areas of employment law. She received her undergraduate degree from the University of California, Davis, and her Juris Doctor from the University of Southern California Law School. She also completed graduate studies at UCLA’S School of Public Health and holds a certificate, with honors, in business and management of entertainment from UCLA. For many years, Barbara has been recognized by several publications as one of “The Best Lawyers in America”, and as one of “Southern California Super Lawyers”. The Los Angeles Business Journal named her one of the “Most Influential Women Attorneys in Los Angeles.”
“I am honored to recognize Barbara as Legislative Woman of the Year,” said
Assemblymember Calderon
. “She has distinguished herself amongst her peers as a consummate litigator and leader in her profession. Barbara is an inspiration to women everywhere. She helps to make California great because she is exemplary of the exceptionalism we aspire to achieve.
Ms. Fitzgerald is amongst ten other community leaders honored by Assemblymember Calderon. These include the following community leaders:
Bibi Fai Ying Leung
– Small Business Owner & Community Volunteer, Rowland Heights
Billie Saavedra
– Director of School Nutrition Services, El Rancho Unified, Pico Rivera
Catherine “Cathy” Marcucci
– Mayor Pro Tem, City of Industry
Christine Garibay
– President, Murphy Ranch Little League, Whittier
Erika Herrera
– Owner & Founder, Domestic BBQ Restaurant, La Puente
Grace Andres Salazar
– Public Works Specialist, La Habra Heights
Joanna C. Lo
– Founder, Heart of Hope, Diamond Bar
Lillian Cruz Rey
– Executive Director, El Monte/South El Monte Emergency Resources Association, El Monte
Linda Jacqueline Argumosa
– Small Business Owner & Community Volunteer, Walnut
Noelia Saucedo
– Senior Recreation Leader, South El Monte Senior Center, South El Monte
Every March, women from across the 56th Assembly District are honored for their remarkable contributions to the community. Recipients are leaders in their respective fields who have demonstrated courage, strength, and vision.
“It is with great pleasure that I recognize these women as the 2024 honorees,” said
Assemblymember Lisa Calderon
. “All eleven recipients have generously devoted their time and efforts to help others. I thank them for positively impacting their communities and for making the 56th District a wonderful place to live.”
Honorees and their guests will be officially recognized by Assemblymember Calderon during the 56th Assembly District Distinguished Women of the Year Awards Dinner. During the ceremony, attendees will have the opportunity to hear from the District’s
Emerging Leader
, Aayati Sangal.
You can read more about these amazing honorees by clicking
HERE
.
###
Contact: Alberto Ruiz, Alberto.Ruiz@asm.ca.gov