SACRAMENTO
– This weekend
, Assemblymember Mia Bonta’s (D - Oakland) bill, AB 1186, the REPAIR Act, was signed by Governor Gavin Newsom, reshaping California’s approach to our youth restitution System. This bill will directly tackle our current failed system, where it costs more to collect fines than they are worth, and those being ordered to pay restitution have an increased likelihood and severity of future incidents of harm.
“This is a win for justice and it is a win for public safety. AB 1186 will alleviate the economic hardships faced by many families burdened by youth restitution fines and make the assessment of youth restitution more equitable,”
said Assemblymember Mia Bonta.
“I am grateful to Governor Newsom for signing this bill to ensure we don’t trap young people in a perpetual cycle of debt, especially for poor Black and brown families.”
The inability to pay restitution often creates long-standing financial harm and instability that prevents young people from moving forward. Two-thirds of those paying restitution indicated that unpaid restitution or fines impacted their ability to afford food and rent, while 60% said it threatened their ability to pay utilities. Furthermore, 93% said it affected their ability to pay other debts. Parents can also be liable for their child’s restitution and subject to unforgiving collection practices and the collateral consequences of court-ordered debt, including negative credit impacts, bank levies, and even property liens.
AB 1186 will provide critical relief by eliminating youth restitution fines, eliminating fines older than 10 years, ending joint & several liability, and ending wage & account garnishment which further drive young people into cycles of poverty.
“Debt Free Justice California applauds Assemblymember Bonta and Governor Newsom for the signing of AB 1186. While California is a leader in debt-free youth justice, mandatory youth restitution fines have undermined the state’s progress as youth and families remain trapped by debt they cannot afford. This important legislation puts young people on a better path towards rehabilitation, making a safer and more equitable California for all,”
Brandon Greene, Director of Policy Advocacy at the Western Center for Law and Poverty.
“We are thrilled that AB 1186, the REPAIR Act, has been signed into law and will provide meaningful relief to impacted young people and their families. California must continue to champion a fairer and just juvenile legal system. Thank you to Governor Gavin Newsom and Assemblymember Mia Bonta for championing this bill,”
said Sonja Tonnesen-Casalegno, Policy & Legal Director, Communities United for Restorative Youth Justice.
“As shown in our recent report, Living on the Brink, Black and brown families are relegated into the most dangerous and low-paying jobs while also struggling to meet the high costs of childcare and housing. At the same time they are saddled with unfair criminal legal debt. Signing the REPAIR Act brings much needed relief to these families, helping California become a more equitable place to live,”
said Jhumpa Bhattacharya, Co-President, The Maven Collaborative.
“The REPAIR Act makes our youth restitution system work better for everyone.
I am proud to have authored this crucial bill and to promote effective legislation promoting accountability, rehabilitation, and healing in our criminal justice system,”
affirmed Assemblymember Mia Bonta upon learning her bill was signed into law.
AB 1186 goes into effect on January 1, 2025.
###
Assemblymember Mia Bonta
represents California’s 18
th
Assembly District encompassing the East Bay including Oakland, Alameda, and Emeryville. She also chairs the Assembly Health Committee.