SACRAMENTO
–Today Assemblymember Marc Berman (D-Menlo Park) announced that Governor Gavin Newsom signed AB 3158, which enables West Valley-Mission Community College District (WVMCCD) to waive tuition fees for the thousands of students living in its service area starting on January 1, 2025. Student testimonials and remarks from Assemblymember Berman and Chancellor Davis will be provided at the “
AB 3158: Beyond the Promise—Free College for Every Student
” press conference on Monday, September 30, from 10:30 AM - 12:00 PM at the Student Services Courtyard of West Valley College.
“The passage of AB 3158 is a huge win for all students of the West Valley-Mission Community College District and I am grateful to Governor Newsom for his signature to guarantee free tuition for thousands of local students,” said Assemblymember Marc Berman. “Two-thirds of California’s community college students struggle with basic needs insecurities such as food and housing, a reality mirrored in West Valley-Mission Community College District’s student population. In the South Bay and Peninsula in particular, the soaring costs of living pose a steep hurdle for local community college students.”
“This new law gives our local community college district the authority to put significant financial resources back into students’ pockets, ensuring they don’t have to choose between taking the extra class they need to graduate or working an extra shift so they can afford groceries or pay rent. I applaud the leadership at West Valley-Mission Community College District for doing everything they can to support their students as they achieve their higher education dreams,” continued Assemblymember Berman.
Addressing the impacts of the Bay Area's astronomical cost of living, AB 3158 will alleviate the burden of state-mandated tuition fees. WVMCCD, funded through local property taxes, has successfully balanced its budget in recent years without imposing student fees. This was achieved through the District’s College Promise Scholarship. Chancellor Bradley Davis shared that while over 5,000 students have enrolled in the program, this law is needed to simplify the process and dramatically expand free tuition access.
“With AB 3158, every student in our service area—whether full-time, part-time, or returning to school—will have access to free, high-quality education without the financial or procedural obstacles that have held many back. This law cuts out complicated forms and delays, making it as easy as enrolling and attending. It's a significant step forward in our mission to remove barriers for our students,” said Chancellor Davis.
Trustee Adrienne Grey emphasized the importance of expanding access to a diverse range of students: “Community colleges serve students from all walks of life, many of whom don’t fit into the traditional college mold. This bill opens doors for people retooling their careers, balancing family responsibilities, or lacking the support to navigate complex financial aid forms. It’s a vital step toward ensuring equity in education and making sure no one is left behind.”
Trustee Robert Owens highlighted the district's fiscal responsibility in enacting the bill: “This isn’t just about waiving fees—it’s about smart governance. AB 3158 allows us to use our local resources more effectively, without increasing the District’s budget or asking for more state funding. It’s a win-win for students and taxpayers alike.”
Former West Valley College Student Trustee Melanie Ho shared her perspective as a student, acknowledging the personal impact of the law: “Because of the soaring costs of living in the Bay Area, many students are trapped in a cycle of living paycheck to paycheck.” By increasing access, Ho notes that this bill will “ease financial strain and foster a more equitable learning environment.”
Following the COVID-19 Pandemic, WVMCCD has seen a resurgence in overall enrollment. With new bachelor’s degrees and workforce development programs on the horizon, the district is set to broaden its impact with more comprehensive educational pathways.
“This bill comes during a renaissance of opportunity for our district, underscoring our commitment to inclusivity and educational enrichment. It is a testament to our belief that unrestricted access to education is a fundamental right, pivotal in unlocking the full potential within our community,” shared Chancellor Davis.
AB 3158 was sponsored by West Valley-Mission Community College District and has support from local legislators. State Senators Josh Becker and Dave Cortese are principal co-authors and Assemblymember Evan Low and Gail Pellerin are co-authors.
Contact: bermanpress@asm.ca.gov