Assemblymember Alex Lee has been appointed to the Committees on Housing and Community Development, Budget, as well as Labor and Employment by Speaker Robert Rivas. Assemblymember Lee currently Chairs the Committee on Human Services.
“I am honored to serve on these important committees at the State Legislature,” he said. “Over the last three years, I have fought to ensure that every Californian is given an equal opportunity to succeed. Our working families deserve a decent standard of living. Social services should be accessible to those who need it, and it’s critical that everyone has access to affordable homes. As the Legislature reconvenes, I remain committed to making California a more inclusive place for everyone.”
In an effort to tackle California’s housing crisis, Assemblymember Lee has proposed social housing legislation to create affordable and quality homes for all Californians. His legislation has garnered support from community members, union workers, local governments, and housing advocates statewide. As the first California legislator to introduce a social housing bill, Assemblymember Lee will continue his efforts to ensure that housing is provided as a fundamental and universal human right.
“Housing is one of the most basic human needs,” he said. “Yet, far too many Californians lack access to affordable homes. According to a
2023 report
by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development, California accounted for more than a quarter of all people experiencing homelessness in the U.S. We have to do all that we can to meet the needs of those struggling with housing insecurity in our communities.”
Below is a list of Assemblymember Lee’s committee appointments:
Standing Committees
Committee on Human Services
, Chair: Primary jurisdictions include child welfare services, CalWORKs, CalFresh, developmental disability services, adult protective services, and SSI/SSP.
Committee on Budget:
The Budget Committee’s jurisdiction is the Budget.
Committee on Housing and Community Development:
Primary jurisdictions are building standards, common interest developments, eminent domain, farm worker housing, homeless programs, housing discrimination, housing finance (including redevelopment), housing, natural disaster assistance and preparedness, land use planning, mobile homes/manufactured housing, redevelopment: housing, and rent control.
Committee on Labor and Employment:
Primary jurisdictions are wages, hours, employment discrimination, Cal-OSHA, employment development, and public job programs.
Subcommittee
Budget Subcommittee No. 2 on Human Services
***