The State Legislature has passed a series of key bills authored by Assemblymember Alex Lee
,
legislation that aims to improve access to healthy food and potable water, accelerate zero-emission transportation and more.
“I am focused on fighting for every Californian’s fundamental needs,” said Assemblymember Lee. “My legislation is rooted in tackling the most pressing issues faced by our community members, from food insecurity and access to safe drinking water to environmental protections and LGBTQ+ rights. I am proud to see the bills passing the Legislature, and I look forward to seeing these bills signed into law.”
AB 2503
streamlines train electrification projects by enabling transit agencies to more rapidly electrify their fleets, improve rail service, and cut emissions. The bill exempts zero-emission railway projects on existing rails from the requirements of the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA).
AB 3031
establishes the LGBTQ+ Commission to advise the Legislature and Governor on policies affecting the LGBTQ+ community.
AB 2454
ensures access to safe drinking water in disadvantaged communities. The bill requires owners of domestic wells serving rental properties to participate in free water testing programs.
AB 3229
aims to tackle food insecurity with a long-term solution by evaluating how to transition the CalFresh Fruit and Vegetable EBT Pilot Project into a permanent program.
AB 2304
closes a loophole related to disclosure when tenants are party to a civil eviction process. It ensures that mobile home tenants are not unfairly penalized on rental applications if they have won their civil eviction cases.
AB 2346
provides additional compliance options for local governments to meet the state’s organic waste procurement requirements.
AB 3291
ensures that youth and young adults with developmental disabilities who are cared for at home receive the necessary support through caregiver succession planning.
Meanwhile, two bills by Assemblymember Lee have already been signed by the Governor in July.
AB 2367
raises awareness of state special schools that serve students with disabilities by allowing for highway destination signs to be created for these schools, including the California School for the Deaf-Fremont.
AB 2325
improves the Bay Area Rapid Transit’s (BART) financial management structure by consolidating financial responsibilities to a Chief Financial Officer.