SACRAMENTO, CA
- Assemblymember Diane Papan’s legislation, Assembly Bill (AB) 2515 -- the T.A.M.P.O.N. Act (Take All Menstrual Product PFAS Out Now), to mandate the removal of toxic chemical from menstrual products, has been signed into law by Governor Gavin Newsom.
"The T.A.M.P.O.N. Act is a crucial step toward protecting the health of millions of women and girls who use menstrual products,” said Papan. “These products are in direct contact with some of the most sensitive areas of the body and long-term exposure to PFAS through such intimate use is dangerous. This legislation is a critical step in protecting Californians from the devastating health effects linked to these toxic chemicals.”
Under the new law, the Department of Toxic Substances Control (DTSC) will establish regulations by January 1, 2029, to enforce the ban. By January 1, 2027, the department will publish a list of accepted testing methods for identifying PFAS in menstrual products and manufacturers must register with the department by July 1, 2029, to certify that their products comply with the new standards.
Additionally, the bill mandates the Department of Toxic Substances Control (DTSC) to collaborate with stakeholders in evaluating alternatives to PFAS, ensuring that the regulation of one harmful chemical is not replaced with another equally hazardous alternative.
“The T.A.M.P.O.N. Act addresses the hidden, harmful chemicals many people unknowingly expose themselves to on a regular basis,” said Papan. “By eliminating PFAS from menstrual products, we’re prioritizing public health for those who rely on these essential items. California will lead the charge to remove these forever chemicals from our shelves.”
PFAS, often referred to as "forever chemicals," have been prevalent in numerous everyday products due to their resistance to water, oil, and heat. Scientific research, however, has linked these chemicals to severe health problems, including breast and other cancers, hormone disruption, kidney and liver damage, thyroid disease, developmental harm, and immune system disruption.
The bill also establishes the T.A.M.P.O.N. Act Fund, collecting penalties from violations to support the enforcement of this critical legislation. This ensures California remains at the forefront of consumer protection, holding manufacturers accountable while improving transparency in product safety.
###