(Sacramento, CA) —
Today, Assemblymember Juan Carrillo (D-Palmdale) and Assemblymember Eloise Gomez Reyes (D-Colton) celebrated the passage of AB 98 the Planning Logistics and Neighborhood Standards Act (P.L.A.N.S). This legislation puts in place first of its kind standards to address the impacts of the logistics industry on sensitive receptors, locations which include schools, homes and daycare centers.
Specifically, AB 98 requires a minimum setback between a sensitive receptor and the dock bay of a warehouse and puts in place requirements that the warehouse is built with 21st century building standards. These standards include; investments in renewable energy, a buffer of up to 100 feet around the facility, and a prohibition on the dock bay being adjacent to any sensitive receptor. In addition, it puts a requirement in place for an update of truck routes throughout California to reduce truck idling and prevent truck routes from cutting through local neighborhoods. Finally, this bill requires a developer who eliminates housing as a result of the creation of a logistics project to replace the housing 2:1 in a fund that will be dedicated to building local affordable units.
“The signing of AB 98 represents an important step forward for communities impacted by the over proliferation of warehousing,” said Assemblymember Reyes. “This legislation strikes a delicate balance that puts in place a higher standard for logistic development near sensitive receptors. I want to be clear, nothing prevents a local government from putting in place stronger protections to further protect vulnerable populations. I look forward to working with Assemblymember Carrillo to ensure implementation of this legislation delivers real change for communities across California.”
“I would like to thank Speaker Rivas for establishing the Assembly’s Warehouse Working Group, my joint author Assemblymember Reyes for her outstanding leadership on this important issue, and now Governor Newsom for signing AB 98,” said Assemblymember Juan Carrillo. “This is a careful and necessary compromise that continues our commitment to produce jobs, attract investment and serve Californians, while guaranteeing baseline requirements to ensure this industry is a better neighbor to impacted communities. Today the world’s economy depends on an increasingly complicated logistics industry, and here in California where e-commerce and overnight delivery have become a way of life, finding this balance was critical.”
###