SACRAMENTO, CA
— Assemblywoman Pilar Schiavo was sworn in today to represent Assembly District 40, which includes the Santa Clarita Valley, Castaic, Northwest San Fernando Valley, and north Sylmar. She begins her second term with a commitment to putting money back in people’s pockets, creating an economy that works for all families, addressing housing affordability, and improving community safety.
“I am so grateful to have earned the trust and overwhelming support of our community. Serving as the Assemblywoman for District 40 has been the honor of a lifetime and I am grateful to once again have the opportunity to help make people’s lives better,” said Assemblywoman Schiavo. “I’m focused on delivering real results that improve the lives of all families, just as we did in our first term.”
In her first term in office, Assemblywoman Schiavo brought back a record amount of nearly 95 million dollars to the district, which will help to create new local jobs, keep our schools and community safe, invest in more housing that’s affordable, and so much more. Those funds include putting more than 1.3 million dollars back in people’s pockets through her office’s work to help families navigate the bureaucracy of state agencies.
Today, the opening day of the new legislative session, Schiavo introduced two bills aimed at providing much needed relief to residents impacted by the ongoing health emergency at the Chiquita Canyon Landfill, which is in Assembly District 40.
The first bill would make any compensation received by residents from Chiquita Canyon Landfill exempt from state taxes and excluded from counting against those who qualify for state assistance such as CalFresh, ensuring that affected individuals receive the full benefit of the funds intended to address their hardships and relieving any state financial burdens.
The second bill seeks funding, through the state budget, to assist residents with short or long-term relocation expenses, offering the necessary financial support to those who have no other option than to escape their community due to ongoing and severe health and environmental impacts and illnesses the Val Verde and Castaic communities are experiencing.
“This is about standing up for the health and well-being of our community. Families in Val Verde and Castaic have lived with the harmful impacts of the Chiquita Canyon Landfill for far too long,” said Assemblywoman Pilar Schiavo. “These bills are a step toward justice, relief, and ensuring no one has to choose between their health and their home.”
Assemblywoman Pilar Schiavo was elected to the California State Assembly in November of 2022 to represent the 40th Assembly District, representing the Northwest San Fernando Valley and the Santa Clarita Valley. Upon her election, she was appointed as Assistant Majority Whip by the Speaker of the Assembly and now serves as Chair of the Assembly Committee on Military and Veterans Affairs. Prior to her election, Assemblywoman Schiavo was a Nurse Advocate and Small Business Owner who worked in the labor movement for more than 20 years. Throughout her career, Assemblywoman Schiavo helped deliver healthcare, including reproductive healthcare, to more than one million people. In the Northwest San Fernando Valley, she co-founded an organization that helped secure housing for Veterans experiencing homelessness, has delivered more than 50,000 meals to people in need, and increased resources to help keep our communities safe. Assemblywoman Schiavo lives in Chatsworth with her daughter Sofia where they love to hike in the Santa Susana Mountains.