Sacramento, CA
-
Assemblymember Cottie Petrie-Norris (D-Irvine) and Sacramento County District Attorney Thien Ho and Mothers Against Drunk Driving held a press conference with a DUI crash survivor, calling on Asm. Kevin McCarty (D-Sacramento) and the Assembly Public Safety Committee, to save lives by passing AB 2210 – requiring
all
DUI offenders to use interlock ignition devices (i.e. breathalyzers or IID’s).
"Every day, drunk drivers kill 37 people in the United States. That is one life lost every 39 minutes. AB 2210 is an opportunity for us to stop these tragedies before the car even starts by requiring anyone who is convicted of drunk driving to install an ignition interlock device. At its core, AB 2210 is just common sense,” said Assemblywoman Petrie Norris. “It will make our roads safer, it will protect our kids, and it will save lives. I’m grateful to be joined by my colleagues, District Attorney Ho, Kelly Carr and her daughter Angel, and Mothers Against Drunk Driving as we call on the Public Safety Committee to pass this bill next week.”
California’s drunk driving deaths have increased by 53% since 2019. However, in states that enacted all-offender interlock laws, they saw DUI deaths decrease by 15%. AB 2210 is a simple solution to help ease the heartbreak of families who are victims of this preventable crime.
"As Sacramento County's District Attorney, I witness the tragic consequences of DUI on innocent victims and their families every day. We must support AB 2210 because it will save lives by requiring all DUI offenders to install an Ignition Interlock Device that prevents a vehicle from starting if the driver is drunk. This isn't just about enforcement--it's about actively preventing further tragedies and safeguarding our roads. Supporting AB 2210 means we're taking a decisive step toward ensuring our streets are safer for everyone. It's about making sure that impaired driving has no place in California." Sacramento County District Attorney, Thien Ho.
"AB 2210 represents a needed step forward in our fight against drunk driving. Our mission has always been clear--to end impaired driving entirely.
The work of
MADD has helped
cut drunk driving fatalities in half through tireless advocacy and support for victims and survivors but our work is far from done. The passage of AB 2210 would join California with 35 other states. This measure is not just a prevention tactic--it's a part of our ongoing effort to eliminate a 100% preventable crime. Together, we can save lives and stop impaired driving once and for all." Rhonda Campbell, Mothers Against Drunk Driving (MADD).
Watch the press conference:
https://vimeo.com/936455347/2b75355a3d?