SACRAMENTO—Gov. Gavin Newsom today signed AB 1284, to encourage the California Natural Resources Agency (CNRA) to enter into cogovernance and comanagement agreements with federally recognized tribes to manage state lands and waters. It was one of seven tribal-related bills approved today by Gov. Gavin Newsom and authored by Assemblymember James C. Ramos (D-San Bernardino).
“Tribes have always been stewards of their ancestral lands and waters. They possess thousands of years of traditional land management knowledge, knowledge that can help us prevent and mitigate the destruction to our state resulting from climate change,”
Ramos said
.
AB 1284 establishes the Tribal Cogovernance and Comanagment of Ancestral Lands and Waters Act which enables the CNRA to act as signatory for the state on  agreements related to the management of its natural resources. The ability to enter into such agreements will further strengthen its relationship with local tribes and promote true “government-to-government” negotiations between the state and tribal nations.
“With this signature, Governor Newsom has cemented a legacy for California that shifts the paradigm away from extermination and environmental destruction to one that acknowledges and respects tribal nations, our cultural lifeways, and protects the natural environment for all Californians,” said
Fawn C. Murphy, Pulikla Tribe of Yurok People Chairperson
and bill sponsor.
Jeri Lynn Thompson, Chairperson of the Tolowa Dee-ni’ Nation
, a bill cosponsor stated,
"With Governor Newsom's signing of AB 1284 into law, every Tribal Nation in California has achieved a significant victory. This law formalizes our role as co-managers of our ancestral lands and waters, allowing us to bring our traditional ecological knowledge to the forefront of conservation and resource management."
AB 1284 is sponsored by the Pulikla Tribe of Yurok People and the Tolowa Dee-Ni’ Nation.
Other Ramos tribal bills signed today include:
AB 81
reinforces California protections for Native American families and the Indian Child Welfare Act
AB 1821
requires that the impact of the Mission and Gold Rush eras on California Native Americans is taught
AB 1863
requires California Highway Patrol (CHP) to state reasons for denying request for a Feather Alert, a public notification system used when Native Americans are missing and overseen by the CHP
AB 2108
requires county social workers and others to immediately notify parents, guardians, legal counsel and other pertinent adults when a foster child is missing.
AB 2348
revises and strengthens California’s Feather Alert, requiring law enforcement agencies to respond within 24 hours of a request, and also allowing for tribal governments to directly communicate with the California Highway Patrol about a request.
AB 2695
requires specified entities reporting criminal record data to the Department of Justice to disaggregate the data based on whether incidents took place in Indian country.
###
Assemblymember James C. Ramos proudly represents the 45th Assembly district that includes the Cities of Fontana, Highland, Mentone, Redlands, Rialto and San Bernardino. He is the first and only California Native American serving in the state’s legislature. Ramos chairs the Assembly Budget Subcommittee #6 on Public Safety.