SACRAMENTO —
Legislation by Assemblymember Dawn Addis (D-Morro Bay) that prioritizes community choice on safety and environmental issues was signed into law today by Governor Gavin Newsom. Assembly Bill 3233 empowers local governments and residents to have a stronger voice on proposed oil and gas operations, ensuring that decisions impacting the environment and public health reflect the priorities of their communities.
AB 3233 addresses the imbalance of power between local communities and major oil corporations, which have historically driven land use decisions at the expense of the residents' health, safety, and environmental wellbeing.
"The signing of AB 3233 is vital win for communities across the Central Coast and all of California. Putting this bill into law affirms our right to clean air and water, free of oil and gas pollution. I'm thankful to Governor Gavin Newsom for signing this important bill into law, to my colleagues for helping me get it to his desk, and to the many community-members and leaders who have been fighting this battle with me. Today is a huge win for the well-being of all Californians."
Said Addis.
The bill has also drawn praise from environmental advocates, local governments, medical professionals and labor organizations. The bill is sponsored by the Center for Biological Diversity.
"With this law cities and counties can act with confidence in their authority to protect people and wildlife from toxic oil drilling,"
said Christina Scaringe, California strategist at the Center for Biological Diversity Action Fund.
"Assemblymember Addis and Gov. Newsom have met Big Oil's threats and confusion with clarity and resolve. Cities like Los Angeles have long had the authority to limit oil and gas drilling, and the courts now have a clear mandate to let them do it."
AB 3233 will take effect on January 1, 2025.
Dawn Addis is the Assistant Majority Leader for Policy and Research and the Chair of the California Central Coast Legislative Caucus. She was elected to the California State Assembly in 2022 to represent the coastal 30th Assembly District, which includes San Luis Obispo, Monterey and Santa Cruz Counties.
CONTACT:
Alexis Garcia-Arrazola, (831) 649-2832