SACRAMENTO, CA
— Assembly Democratic Caucus Chair Rick Chavez Zbur (D-Hollywood) has announced that the California State Assembly has passed
AB 2525, the Los Angeles RV Lot Program
. AB 2525, sponsored by Los Angeles Mayor Karen Bass, is designed to help the City of Los Angeles (the City) and other governmental agencies implement housing strategies for people experiencing homelessness who are residing in recreational vehicles. The Los Angeles Recreational Vehicle Lot Program streamlines the City's ability to lease property from the California Department of Transportation (Caltrans) at a reduced rate to store recreational vehicles (RVs) while their former inhabitants receive services to transition into temporary and permanent housing.
Nearly 6,500 people experiencing homelessness in the City of Los Angeles are living in about 4,000 RVs, according to the most recent Point-in-Time Count data from the Los Angeles Homeless Services Authority (LAHSA). That number represents 22% of the City's total unsheltered homeless population, leading to a number of large encampments on city streets. Shortly after assuming office, Mayor Karen Bass launched her signature program, "Inside Safe," to bring people experiencing homelessness indoors. To date, the program has brought more than 21,000 Angelenos inside, including RV dwellers. However, the City's RV storage lots are 95% full. In order to get more people into housing and continue this successful program, the City needs additional locations to store the RVs taken off the streets. Currently, Caltrans can lease property to the City for emergency shelter or feeding services at a rate of $1 per month. AB 2525 allows Caltrans to include the storage of recreational vehicles as a third option for which it can lease property at the same low rate.
"This is a simple, effective solution to an obstacle that is preventing Angelenos from getting off the street and into housing," said
Assemblymember Rick Chavez Zbur
. "Many unhoused people who would be prime candidates for transitional housing have RVs that gave them a much-needed roof over their head after becoming homeless. This bill will free up space under freeways and in other areas that often go unused, and provide the necessary storage for RVs, removing a logistical burden for people accessing critical housing services from the City. This additional storage space for RVs will ensure that Mayor Bass and the Inside Safe program successfully continue getting vulnerable Angelenos off the streets and into safe, stable housing."
"We must continue to lock arms confronting the life or death crisis of homelessness in our cities," said
Los Angeles Mayor Karen Bass
. "AB 2525 will help play an important role in that effort, especially when it comes to our ability to address RV encampments throughout our city and state. Thank you to Assemblymember Zbur for your leadership and partnership in our efforts to tackle this crisis."
AB 2525 now moves to the California State Senate where it will be heard in the coming weeks.
Assemblymember Rick Chavez Zbur serves as the Democratic Caucus Chair for the California State Assembly and represents the 51st Assembly District, which includes Universal City, Hollywood, Hancock Park, West Hollywood, Beverly Hills, Westwood, West Los Angeles, Santa Monica, and other portions of Los Angeles.
CONTACT:
Vienna Montague, (916) 319-2051, Vienna.Montague@asm.ca.gov