SACRAMENTO, CA – The California State Legislature passed
Senate Bill (SB) 867
, a once-in-a-generation climate bond known as the Safe Drinking Water, Wildfire Prevention, Drought Preparedness, and Clean Air Bond Act of 2024, and
Assembly Bill (AB) 247
, the California Public Education Facilities Bond Measure. Each of these bonds are now eligible to appear on the November 8, 2024 General Election ballot. Assemblymember Damon Connolly (D-San Rafael) served on the State Assembly Climate Bond Working Group, collaborating with legislative colleagues to craft the wildfire and nature based solutions provisions of the bond.
“Just this week, Californians have experienced multiple fires, a heatwave, and subsequent power safety shut-offs due to extreme temperatures,” said Assemblymember Connolly. “The climate crisis is here and these historic bonds are our opportunity to respond. I am proud to have helped secure $1.5 billion for wildfire and forest resilience, including $135 million for structural and home hardening, as well as long-term investments in sea-level rise and coastal resilience, water storage, drought prevention, and sustainable agriculture. Paired with the investments that will be made to repair our educational facilities in the education bond, these measures will prepare California to meet, mitigate, and overcome the impacts of climate change.”
The Safe Drinking Water, Wildfire Prevention, Drought Preparedness, and Clean Air Bond Act of 2024 authorizes a first-of-its-kind $10 billion general obligation bond to finance projects for safe drinking water, drought, flood, and water resilience, wildfire and forest resilience, coastal resilience, extreme heat mitigation, biodiversity and nature-based climate solutions, climate-smart, sustainable, and resilient farms, ranches, and working lands, park creation and outdoor access, and clean air programs. Funding includes:
$3.8 billion For Safe Drinking Water, Drought, Flood, and Water Resilience.
$1.5 billion for Wildfire and Forest Resilience.
$1.2 billion for Sea-Level Rise and Coastal Resilience.
$450 million for Extreme Heat Mitigation.
$1.2 billion for Protecting Biodiversity and Promoting Natural Solutions.
$300 million for Climate Resilient Farms, Ranches and Working Lands.
$700 million for Parks and Outdoor Access.
$850 million for Cleaner Air through Reliable Clean Energy Solution.
The California Public Education Facilities Bond will allocate $10 billion dollars to pay for repairs and upgrades to K-12 and community college campus infrastructure across California. These repairs will address dry rot, mold, leaks, and hazards that have been neglected due to lacking sufficient funds to make necessary repairs. This bond measure allocates $8.5 billion dollars for upgrading the infrastructure of our K-12 schools, and $1.5 billion dollars to construction and improvements for community colleges.
The Safe Drinking Water, Wildfire Prevention, Drought Preparedness, and Clean Air Bond Act of 2024 and the California Public Education Facilities Bond Measure passed out of the State Legislature and will be subject to voter’s approval on the November 8, 2024 General Election ballot.