Sacramento, CA
– Assemblymember Rebecca Bauer Kahan (D-Orinda) has introduced 21 bills this 2024 legislative session.
As the newly appointed Chair of the Privacy and Consumer Protection Committee, Assemblymember Bauer-Kahan’s number one priority this year is creating a robust regulatory framework for Artificial Intelligence (AI.) She has introduced a package of AI legislation, with the flagship bill
AB 2930
which will require all algorithmic decision-making to be proven unbiased before it makes consequential decisions about Californian’s lives.
"Algorithms are already making decisions about our lives, and there’s no check on the bias. These hidden forces are embedding discrimination further into our system and it’s unacceptable,” said
Assemblymember Bauer-Kahan (D-Orinda).
"
AB 2930
continues our work to ensure that AI fulfils its promises of progress and does not drag us backwards."
Assemblymember Bauer-Kahan also introduced
AB 1836
, which seeks to ensure that generative AI does not exploit deceased person’s intellectual property. The other bills in the Privacy Chair’s AI package include
AB 2885
which will create a standard definition for AI in state law, and
AB 3204
which requires all data-trained models sold in California to register with the state. Together, the bills c
reate a nation-leading regulatory framework where AI tools are tracked and understood.
As the Chair of the Select Committee on Reproductive Health, Assemblymember Bauer-Kahan continues her fight for abortion rights with
AB 2099 and AB
2085
.
AB 2085
addresses the issue of local governments arbitrarily blocking the construction of desperately needed reproductive health clinics. The bill streamlines zoning for reproductive healthcare clinics to expand access. To keep patients at these clinics safe,
AB 2099
increases penalties for attacks and doxing by anti-abortion extremists.
Assemblymember Bauer-Kahan
has also expanded her focus to
equity in reproductive health with
AB 2527 and AB 2467.
Through the Select Committee, the Assemblymember has hosted extensive discussions on menopause equity in research and care.
AB 2467
will house legislation to ensure healthcare providers allow access to a full complement of care to menopausal patients, and
AB 2527
focuses on pre-natal health by requiring adequate nutrition and treatment for those incarcerated while pregnant.
“Equity doesn’t have an age limit. We’ve led the nation to ensure the legal protections for reproductive health, now it’s time to work on ensuring meaningful access, research, and care,”
said Assemblymember Bauer-Kahan.
California’s electricity rates are the highest in the nation, and as a member of the Utilities and Energy Committee, Assemblymember Bauer-Kahan has prioritized electricity rate reform. She has introduced
AB 2054
, which will prevent conflict of interest within California’s regulators by instituting a 10-year cooling off period before a Public Utilities or Energy Commissioner can be employed by a regulated entity. She has also co-authored
AB 1999
to re-stablish a $10 cap on the fixed charge allowed on ratepayer bills.
The other bills in the Assemblymember’s legislative package include
AB 2236
which eliminates plastic grocery bags,
AB 2021
which increases penalties for selling tobacco products to minors online, and
AB 2011
which protects small businesses from spurious lawsuits. She is also authoring legislation on student mental health, micro-plastics, and protections from predatory lending.
“
My legislative package reflects my dedication to responsive government and substantive reform,”
said Assemblymember Bauer-Kahan.
“From electricity rate accountability to AI protections, my number one priority is turning the needs of District 16 into meaningful change for California.”
######