SACRAMENTO, CA —
Assembly Democratic Caucus Chair Rick Chavez Zbur (D-Hollywood) has announced that two of his bills aimed at addressing housing and homelessness have passed their first Assembly policy committees. On Tuesday, members of the Assembly Transportation Committee voted by a wide margin to advance AB 2525 – the
Los Angeles Recreational Vehicle Lot Program
bill
–
and members of the Assembly Human Services Committee overwhelmingly voted to advance AB 2650 – the
CalFresh for Board and Care Facilities
bill – passing the bill with no "No" votes. These bills promote effective and necessary strategies to address homelessness in our communities.
"There is no magic bullet to eliminating homelessness in California, but we must do everything we can to find creative and meaningful solutions to address the housing and homelessness crisis," said
Assemblymember Rick Chavez Zbur
. "These bills provide critical tools in getting people into housing and preventing them from becoming homeless in the first place. AB 2525 will free up space under freeways and other areas to provide the City of Los Angeles (the City) with crucial storage for RVs so more people can move into housing and receive services to relieve homelessness. Mayor Bass and the Inside Safe program have done outstanding work to get people housed, and the City needs more RV storage space to continue that success. AB 2650 will aim to require the study and cost of extending CalFresh benefits to residents of at-risk board and care facilities, which often house people experiencing mental health issues who have nowhere else to turn. Developing strategies to stem the closure of these facilities is crucial to preventing their residents from becoming homeless when these facilities close."
AB 2525: Los Angeles Recreational Vehicle Lot Program
The most recent Point-in-Time Count data from the Los Angeles Homeless Services Authority (LAHSA) showed that nearly 6,500 people experiencing homelessness in the City of Los Angeles are living in about 4,000 RVs. That number, which has grown by 40% since 2018, represents 22% of the City's total unsheltered homeless population, leading to a number of large encampments on city streets. Shortly after assuming office, City of Los Angeles Mayor Karen Bass - the sponsor of AB 2525 - launched her signature program, "Inside Safe," to bring people experiencing homelessness indoors. To date, the program has brought more than 2,100 Angelenos inside, including RV dwellers. However, the City's RV storage lots are 95% full. In order to get more people into housing and continue this successful program, the City of Los Angeles needs additional locations to store the RVs taken off the streets while people transition into housing. Currently, Caltrans can lease property to the City for the purposes of emergency shelter or feeding services at a rate of $1 per month. AB 2525 adds storage of recreational vehicles as a third purpose for which Caltrans can lease property at the same low rate.
Sponsor: Los Angeles Mayor Karen Bass
AB 2650: CalFresh for Board & Care Facilities
Board and care facilities, which are often at risk of closure due to financial burden and very low government funding rates, provide services to some of California's most vulnerable populations, including people experiencing mental health crises. Without these facilities, its residents would lose shelter and access to regular meals, leading to homelessness and hunger. Currently, residents of board and care facilities in the state of California do not qualify for Calfresh Benefits. AB 2650 would require the study of board and care facilities experiencing financial distress to determine if CalFresh benefits could stem the increasing closure of these facilities due to inadequate funding, and to determine the estimated cost of CalFresh benefits to the state of California. Maintaining and growing board and care facilities is a key part of an effective strategy to address homelessness in our communities.
Sponsor: Licensed Adult Residential Care Association (LARCA)
AB 2525 now advances to the Assembly Appropriations Committee, and AB 2650 advances to the Assembly Health Committee, where the bills will be heard in the coming weeks.
Assemblymember Rick Chavez Zbur serves as the Democratic Caucus Chair for the California State Assembly and represents the 51st Assembly District, which includes Universal City, Hollywood, Hancock Park, West Hollywood, Beverly Hills, Westwood, West Los Angeles, Santa Monica, and other portions of Los Angeles.
CONTACT:
Vienna Montague, (916) 319-2051, Vienna.Montague@asm.ca.gov