SACRAMENTO, CA – Today, Assemblymember Damon Connolly (D-San Rafael) introduced a bill that will address the increasing rates of unsafe electric bicycle (e-bike) usage and collisions from children riding these vehicles at high speeds. AB 1778 will amend California’s Vehicle Code to prohibit individuals under the age of 16 from operating a class 2 e-bike and would ensure these vehicles are not sold if they can exceed the speeds of their class designation.
“Striking a balance that prioritizes the safety of our community while keeping transportation options accessible to those who need them is a top priority,” said Assemblymember Damon Connolly (D-San Rafael). “Working with Supervisor Mary Sackett, I believe we have found that middle ground by limiting children’s access to high speed, throttle powered e-bikes that have been found to be most prevalent in collisions and injuries in our community. While we continue to encourage the use of sustainable transportation options, we need to address the shocking increase in accidents to ensure everyone in our community is safe.”
New
data
from the Marin County Health Department shows that from October 10th to November 10th this year, the rate of e-bike-related accidents for youth was nine times higher than similar accidents of people over 20 years old. The report also showed that 22 percent of all 911 calls in the same period were for e-bike-related accidents and 71 percent of responses for all bike accidents among 10- to 19-year-olds were e-bike-related.
AB 1778 would also require riders to adhere to proper use of a helmet when operating a class 2 electric bicycle. The bill would also clarify that an electric vehicle can only be placed in a certain class if it ceases to provide assistance when the bicycle reaches a maximum speed regardless of the mode. Updating the requirements to access throttle-assisted electric bicycles powered by a motor will both mitigate injury risk as well as continue to prioritize the safety of the residential streets in our community.