SACRAMENTO, CA
- In response to the organized smash-and-grab and dangerous robberies that have devastated California businesses and workers, legislation authored by Speaker Robert Rivas (D-Salinas) –  which holds accountable those who destroy or damage property while committing a felony – was signed into law today by Governor Gavin Newsom.
“Violent ‘sledgehammer crimes’ and flash-mob attacks by organized gangs must stop now. I authored this new law to hold appropriately responsible those who damage stores and property, because our business owners and workers should not have to live in fear that these crimes will come to their doorstep. I thank Governor Newsom for signing this bill so we can keep our communities safe,”
Speaker Robert Rivas
said.
“California already has some of the strictest retail and property crime laws in the nation — and we have made them even stronger with our recent legislation. We can be tough on crime while also being smart on crime — we don’t need to go back to broken policies of the last century. Mass incarceration has been proven ineffective and is not the answer – we need true accountability and strategies that enhance our nation-leading efforts to address crime. I thank Speaker Rivas for his leadership in strengthening law enforcement tools in California,”
Governor Gavin Newsom
said.
This new law is part of Speaker Rivas’
historic package of new retail theft and property crime laws
that
the Governor signed
last month. The bipartisan, balanced new laws will improve public safety and hold people who steal repeatedly from stores and businesses responsible for their crimes.
The bill package is the culmination of Speaker Rivas’ and legislative leaders' thoughtful and collaborative effort to bring all colleagues and stakeholders to the table, including retail and business owners, law enforcement groups, criminal justice advocates, workers, shoppers and many others.
These laws deliver new tools to crack down on retail crime and theft while preserving the state’s needed criminal justice reforms. They provide diversion pathways for people who steal due to food insecurity or substance abuse, in order to avoid the over criminalization and mass incarceration of young Californians and people of color.
In November 2023, Speaker Rivas formed the Assembly Select Committee on Retail Theft and appointed Assemblymember Rick Chavez Zbur (D-Hollywood) to lead the committee’s work. The select committee held multiple public hearings across the state and met with a diverse array of stakeholders. This resulted in the introduction of a comprehensive and bipartisan legislative package to provide law enforcement and prosecutors additional tools to tackle retail theft, auto break-ins, cargo theft and more.
Assembly Bill 1960 holds appropriately responsible those who take, damage or destroy property in the commission or attempted commission of a felony. Specifically, if the value of property loss exceeds $50,000, an additional term of one year is imposed, with up to four-plus years for property value exceeding $3 million.
For additional information, please contact:
Speaker Robert Rivas Press Secretary Cynthia Moreno:
Cynthia.Moreno@asm.ca.gov
.
###