SACRAMENTO, CA
– Assemblymember Stephanie Nguyen (D-Elk Grove) and Assemblymember Joe Patterson (R-Rocklin) held a press conference to discuss ACR 150 and AB 3156. ACR 150 designates March 2024 as Developmental Disabilities Awareness Month. Assembly Bill 3156 would exempt dual-eligible and nondual-eligible Medi-Cal beneficiaries from mandatory enrollment in Medi-Cal managed care plans if they receive medical care from regional centers and utilize Medi-Cal fee-for-service delivery systems as secondary forms of health coverage.
“As a mom of a special needs kid, I know firsthand the challenges that come with raising a child with developmental disabilities,” said Assemblymember Nguyen. “I am honored to champion a budget letter to address the ongoing issue of underfunding the disability service provider sector. Developmental disability service providers help those with a disability lead a quality life. I will continue to fight for the well-being and inclusion of these individuals, which include their care providers.”
Under the Lanterman Developmental Disabilities Service Act, consumers from regional centers are eligible for Medi-Cal. The new CalAIM initiative is forcing regional center consumers to enroll in Medi-Cal as a primary insurance, which means losing their doctors. If approved, filing a temporary medical exemption to maintain continuity of care with a provider is a short-term solution, lasting only six to twelve months. Developmental disabilities are often lifelong and require a long-term solution as proposed by AB 3156 that will allow individuals to stay on their primary insurance.
“It’s crazy to me that kids with developmental disabilities are now losing their doctors and specialists because of a state administrative change,” Assemblymember Patterson said. “These children and young adults have unique needs and should be able to keep their specialty doctors who know them best and have treated them for years. This unintended consequence of past legislation can and should be easily addressed."
###
Assemblymember Stephanie Nguyen represents the Cities of Sacramento and Elk Grove. Assemblymember Patterson Represents Roseville, Rocklin, Lincoln, Granite Bay, Auburn, North Auburn, Loomis, Meadow Vista, Newcastle, Penryn, El Dorado Hills, Cameron Park, Diamond Springs, Placerville, Shingle Springs, Auburn Lake Trails, Georgetown, Cold Springs, Coloma, Rescue and Cool.