Today in the state Capitol’s Assembly Chamber, Speaker Robert Rivas welcomed returning lawmakers and 23 newly elected members for their swearing-in, and delivered a straightforward message about priorities for the 2024-25 legislative session:
“Our constituents don’t feel the state of California is working for them. That’s their lived experience in this moment. Our task this session is urgent and clear: We must chart a new path forward. And it begins by focusing on affordability.”
Speaker Rivas’ remarks reflected his
working-class roots
growing up in farmworker housing along the Central Coast. On Monday, he urged fellow lawmakers on both sides of the aisle to focus on policy that will truly help working families.
“California will always be America’s destination for dreams and opportunities. But we need to consider every bill through the lens of Californians who are anxious about affordability. Specifically, we must focus on building more housing and lowering energy costs.”
“Affordable, decent housing is the civil rights struggle of our time,” Rivas said, “Working people have a right to live near their jobs, in the communities they help enrich, and I’m going to do everything in my power to make that possible.”
Click here to see a clip of the Speaker’s remarks.
Rivas also celebrated a key accomplishment: Every incumbent member of the Assembly Democratic Caucus prevailed this year and is returning to the Assembly.
On Monday, the Assembly also voted Rivas to serve
another two-year term
as Speaker of the Assembly.
Click here to read Speaker Rober Rivas’ speech.
During the ceremony, Rivas pointed to the Legislature’s diversity, including a record number of women lawmakers serving this session.
He expressed tremendous optimism for the future. “California is unlike anywhere else. We embody the spirit of possibility, of resilience and of innovation. But it must be a place of opportunity for everyone.”
Speaker Rivas highlighted the following ways to improve the cost of living in California and increase opportunity:
On Monday, the Assembly introduced new rules that limit the number of bills a legislator can introduce. “Everyone in this room has good and important ideas,” Rivas said. “But our time and energy here are limited. So this session, we are lowering the number of bills legislators can introduce over the two-year term, from 50 to 35, because we want every leader in this room to have the greatest possible bandwidth to focus on laws that uplift affordability and prosperity.”
Rivas also urged lawmakers to look at policy via the lens of working-class Californians, and consider several things before introducing bills: “Does it lower day-to-day costs for families? Does it build more housing quickly? Does it improve public services in ways people can see and feel? Does it help small businesses start and thrive?”
And he pushed for more accountability and oversight. “We must ensure that existing state programs are working full-speed ahead,” Speaker Rivas said. “Our job is not just making new laws. It’s looking in the rearview mirror.”
With the Assembly set to embark on a new two-year session in January, Speaker Rivas encouraged his colleagues to embrace this new direction.
“Over the next two years, we must do everything in our power to renew the California dream.”