SACRAMENTO – Assemblymember James C. Ramos (D-San Bernardino) selected Inland Empire based Working Dogs for Warriors as the 2024 California Nonprofit of the Year for Assembly District 45. The nonprofit organization was honored today at the State Capitol along with other outstanding nonprofit organizations from around California.
Ramos said, “
Working Dogs for Warriors
is a nonprofit serving veterans and first responders who may be struggling with Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD). Founders Daisy and Michael Welsh tailor their animal training to meet the specific needs of the recipient. They don’t stop with just this program. Every year they also host an annual Warrior Walk for Suicide Prevention to raise funding to support essential mental health programs in the area. They are richly deserving of this recognition.”
The Welshes brought along Hopper, one of their “trainees” to receive the honor. The Australian collie was a star at the event and in the Capitol. After the ceremony, the trio took time to visit the veterans and first responder memorials in Capitol Park.
This is the ninth year of the California Nonprofit of the Year initiative, a statewide effort honoring the critical role nonprofit organizations play in California. Each year, state legislators choose a nonprofit from their district to be honored throughout the year, including at an annual luncheon at the Capitol in early June.
“Nonprofit organizations touch the lives of millions of Californians in ways that can often go unrecognized. From the childcare program to the soccer team, from the art class to the health clinic, and from the community organizer to the animal shelter – nonprofits improve the lives of all Californians and make our communities stronger,” said Geoff Green, CEO of the California Association of Nonprofits (CalNonprofits), the sponsor for this initiative. “Nonprofits are also a key economic driver in our state, accounting for 1 in 14 jobs. It’s important to recognize all they do.”
CalNonprofits sponsors the program in partnership with the state Senate and Assembly Select Committees on the Nonprofit Sector. CalNonprofits, the leading policy voice for California’s nonprofit sector, focuses on advocacy, education, and research to build a more powerful and politically engaged nonprofit network across the state.
###
Assemblymember James C. Ramos proudly represents the 45th Assembly district that includes the Cities of Fontana, Highland, Mentone, Redlands, Rialto and San Bernardino. He is the first and only California Native American serving in the state’s legislature. Ramos chairs the Assembly Budget Subcommittee #6 on Public Safety.