(SAN DIEGO, CA) –
The rise in hate-based littering and the distribution of flyers, posters, or symbols with hateful messaging targeting protected communities has
become a growing concern in recent years.
Hate groups have increasingly adopted these tactics to maximize their impact while allowing them to remain in the shadows. In response, Assemblymember Chris Ward, along with San Diego City Councilmember Raul Campillo, San Diego Mayor Todd Gloria, and San Diego City Attorney Mara Elliott, introduced AB 3024: The Stop Hate Littering Act ensuring victims are provided adequate protections, while creating new legal tools for law enforcement to hold offenders accountable. The bill is now headed to Governor Newsom.
“Hate littering deliberately targets our neighbors, dehumanizing them based on their religion, gender, sexual orientation, or other characteristics,”
said Assemblymember Chris Ward (D-San Diego).
“These anti-Semitic, anti-LGBTQ and other hateful messages are being left on our windshields, in our driveways, and on our front doors, and there’s been an alarming uptick in distribution in recent years. The Stop Hate Littering Act sends a clear message to these bigots that your tactics will not divide us, and you will be held accountable for your actions.”
The Anti-Defamation League reports
that the spread of anti-Semitic flyers is part of a disturbing trend of rising anti-Semitic hate. In 2023, the organization recorded over 3,600 acts of anti-Semitic assault, vandalism, and harassment in the United States, marking the highest number of such incidents since tracking began in 1979. As recently as two weeks ago, hate flyers were distributed in Berkeley
featuring a barcode that led to an anti-Semitic website.
At the same time, residents in Walnut Creek, Lafayette and Concord in the East Bay received anti-Semitic fliers left at their homes,
including ones deliberately left at the doorsteps of local Jewish congregants.
In San Diego alone,
at least eight instances of anti-Semitic flyers being distributed
on car windshields were documented in 2023. Additionally, anti-Armenian hate flyers were
distributed in Los Angeles neighborhoods
and hate flyers have also
appeared in Fresno.
“In just a few weeks, our friends in the Jewish community will begin celebrating the High Holy Days,”
said San Diego City Attorney Mara Elliott.
“The fact families will be gathering in the shadow of a 360-percent increase in anti-Semitic incidents should be a source of deep concern for all of us. We all have the right to live free from fear and intimidation, and this bill is a tool we can use to protect that right."
In 2022, Attorney General Rob Bonta released the annual
Hate Crime in California Report,
which revealed a 20% increase in hate-motivated crime events from 2021 to 2022. Unfortunately, prosecuting hate littering has been challenging due to its legal ambiguity. The Stop Hate Littering Act aims to close these gaps by building on the Ralph Act of 1976, which guarantees everyone the right to be free from violence and intimidation. The bill will ensure victims receive adequate protection, provide civil recourse, and equip law enforcement with new tools to hold offenders accountable and deter hate crimes.
“Hate of all types is never to be tolerated in San Diego – and with the passage of AB 3024, our government sends a strong message that threatening flyers that terrorize our communities are not just immoral, but in fact illegal,”
said San Diego City Councilmember Raul Campillo.
“Thank you Assemblymember Ward for your partnership to put in place stronger deterrents that will protect our neighborhoods from hate.”
The governor has until October 30, 2024, to sign or veto the bill.