(Sacramento, CA) December 2, 2024
– Dr. Jasmeet Bains (D-Delano) took her oath of office today, kicking off her second term representing Kern County in the California State Assembly.
“In my first term, I delivered resources to fight fentanyl, fought to expand healthcare access, and voted against out-of-touch policies that are raising prices for working families,” said Dr. Bains.
“I am honored to have earned the trust of my district to return as their representative in Sacramento. I will continue to fight for Kern County, fight for our families, and stand up for the Central Valley.”
Dr. Bains was re-elected by a wide margin, with more than 57% of the vote in her district.
Legislation by Dr. Bains signed into law in her first term includes:
The ‘Grow Our Own Bill’ to bring a UC Medical School to Kern County
$21 million to fund Kern County’s Fentanyl Task Force and expand healthcare access
A $100 million tax cut for nursing mothers to exempt breast pumps and related supplies from sales taxes
Additional training guidelines to help law enforcement with wandering associated with dementia or autism.
Cutting red tape for hospitals to provide more recovery services.
In 2024, the Alzheimer’s Association named Dr. Bains “Legislator of the Year” for her work as the Chair of the Aging and Long-Term Care Committee and for authoring the bill that extended voluntary contributions to Alzheimer’s research on tax returns. Crime Victims United named Dr. Bains “Legislator of the Year” for expanding resources to improve public safety and combating illicit drugs.
A family doctor by trade, Dr. Bains is part of a young and diverse group of legislators from the Central Valley. She is the first South Asian woman and Sikh elected to the California State Legislature.
Assembly District 35 stretches from Arvin to Delano and includes much of East Bakersfield.
# # #
Dr. Jasmeet Bains represents the 35
th
Assembly District in Kern County, including the cities of Bakersfield, Delano, Wasco, Arvin, Shafter, and McFarland.