FRESNO – Assemblymember Dr. Joaquin Arambula (D-Fresno) authored 10 bills during the 2023-24 State legislative session that advanced through the legislative process and now are on Governor Newsom’s desk for consideration. The Governor has until September 30, 2024 to sign or veto bills.
Assemblymember Arambula said:
“It was important for me to author legislation that addresses inequities in our communities and will help improve the quality of life, especially for our most vulnerable neighbors and families. When we do this – whether it’s access to quality health care or protections for workers – the impact will benefit all Californians and move our state forward toward a California for ALL.”
These are the 10 Assembly Bills:
AB 310 –
It aims to help improve patient care and outcomes at California State Hospitals. The bill requires the California Department of State Hospitals to submit a report to the Legislature by January 31, 2026 that details the amount of funds budgeted and spent for civil service psychiatrists and contract psychiatrists in California. By doing this, the report will help shape future policies to enhance the trust and consistency of quality of care between patients and their psychiatrists.
AB 805 –
All communities should have access to safe and affordable drinking water and sanitation. The bill authorizes the State Water Resources Control Board to appoint administrators to better manage failing systems and protect communities.
AB 1830 –
Folic acid is essential to preventing birth defects, and food is the best way to get folic acid into women’s diets before they become pregnant. This bill helps support healthy pregnancies by requiring manufacturers to fortify corn masa with folic acid. A requirement is in effect for enriched cereal grain product.
AB 1840 –
Already, any first-time homebuyer can apply for the existing California Dream for All loan program. This bill simply clarifies the program’s language to make clear that undocumented immigrants can apply for the home ownership assistance program. Any applicant must meet the program’s criteria, which includes first securing a bank loan or mortgage and having a Social Security Number or ITIN (Individual Taxpayer Identification Number).
AB 1855 –
Eligible legislative student organizations at California community colleges will be allowed to use alternate teleconferencing provisions, if adopted by their Board of Trustees and adopted by the eligible body. This bill ensures students can participate in public meetings without threat to safety, privacy, or accessibility.
AB 1888 –
Survivors of labor trafficking should not be traumatized when seeking help. AB 1888, co-authored with Assemblymember James C. Ramos, ensures that the State prioritizes these victims through more efficient and comprehensive enforcement of existing labor trafficking laws. The bill will establish the Labor Trafficking Unit within the State’s Department of Justice and will develop a tracking and reporting system. In addition, victims will be informed of services and options available to them.
AB 2080 –
Every patient should have access to culturally and linguistically appropriate health care to ensure better communication with patients – and therefore better treatment and outcomes. There is a critical shortage of physicians in the Central Valley and our state, especially doctors who reflect the diversity of our communities. AB 2080 requests that the University of California present an annual enrollment report, and post data on its website, regarding students in its medical schools.
AB 2240 –
It will eliminate an outdated requirement that forces farmworker families to move out of farm labor centers for a minimum of three months, or risk ineligibility for that housing. This unfairly disrupts their lives and their children’s education. AB 2240, with Speaker Rivas as principal co-author, also ensures that these centers will be dignified places by requiring they comply with health and safety codes for heating, cooling, clean water, and other systems.
AB 2543 –
This bill provides all small business owners with the same opportunity to help California’s economy to thrive. AB 2543 ensures that all small businesses will have access to the benefits of small business certification, regardless of the immigration status of the owners or operators.
AB 2795 –
Members of tribal communities should receive equitable access to safety net programs. This bill, with Assemblymember Ramos as co-author, reduces administrative barriers to providing CalWORKS and Temporary Assistance for Needy Families (TANF) at Indian Health Clinics.
In addition, Assemblymember Arambula authored two other pieces of legislation that only required Assembly approval:
ACR 128 –
The date of October 1 is designated as California Latino & Latina Physician Day to recognize the importance of a health care workforce that represents the cultural and linguistic diversity of the state. It also helps raise awareness of the critical shortage of physicians and medical providers in California, especially in the Central Valley. ACR 128 follows a federal resolution that designated the same date as National Latino and Latina Physician Day.
HR 110 –
This bill represents California’s support for the establishment of the National Infrastructure Bank to facilitate financing to repair existing infrastructure and new projects without additional federal taxes. It’s estimated this would generate 25 million new jobs nationwide.
#####