SACRAMENTO, CA—
Today, Assemblywoman Esmeralda Soria recognized Firebaugh civic leader and lifelong farmer, Joe L. Del Bosque as her 2024 Latino Spirit Award Honoree on the California State Assembly Floor.
After years of migrant farm work, Del Bosque’s family settled on the Westside of the San Joaquin Valley. There he grew up working on the farm with his father, starting at the age of 10, and upon graduating from Fresno State in 1975, Del Bosque established his own melon farm in 1985. Today his farm produces organic melons, tomatoes, almonds, and cherries.
Del Bosque has been a strong vocal advocate for farmers and farmworkers impacted by water policies. In 2010, Del Bosque was appointed to serve on the California Water Commission. He currently serves on the Ag Foundation Board at Fresno State, the Board of Directors of AMOR Wellness, and is a member of the California Melon Research Board. He is also a member of the California Latino Water Coalition, Western Growers Association, and California Farm Bureau.
For his contributions to agriculture in California, Assemblywoman Soria has selected Joe L. Del Bosque to be her honoree of the California Legislative Latino Caucus, Latino Spirit Awards.
“Joe is an example of the best in agriculture in the Central Valley. His work and advocacy has benefited our communities and state,” said Assemblywoman Soria. “Joe has uplifted Latinos in all of the spaces he has been a trailblazer in. I am honored to recognize Joe at the State Capitol for his impact and contributions to California agriculture.”
“I am honored to receive this special recognition from Assemblywoman Soria and the California Latino Legislative Caucus,” said Mr. Bosque.  “Thank you for recognizing the talents of Latinos across California. We are a diverse community and our contributions span all sectors.  As a former farmworker and now farmer I am humbled to receive the Spirit Award in Agriculture”.
You can rewatch the Latino Spirit Award Ceremony here:
https://www.assembly.ca.gov/media/assembly-floor-session-20240506
(Ceremony begins at 1:35:30)
###