Despite Rain, Volunteers Complete Nearly 20 Service Projects Across the Valley; Prepare “World's Largest Lasagna” to Feed 22,000 Angelenos in Need
LOS ANGELES, CA —
Yesterday, Assemblymember Jesse Gabriel (D - Encino) was joined by over 1,300 volunteers, 50 community groups, and other elected officials who participated in nearly 20 service projects across the San Fernando Valley as part of the Assemblymember’s Third Annual Valley Day of Service.
“While social media is often filled with negativity, the truth is we are lucky to have such a generous and caring community in the San Fernando Valley,” said
Assemblymember Gabriel
. “I am grateful for all of the amazing volunteers who turned out despite the rain to make this Day of Service such a success, and I am thankful for the wonderful community organizations that help make a positive difference in the Valley every day of the year.”
Projects at the Valley Day of Service included:
Assembling of “The World’s Largest Lasagna” by preparing 22,000 meals for Angelenos in need with
Hope the Mission
.
Packing 2,000 homeless outreach kits with
LA Family Housing
and
Jewish Family Service LA.
Making 1,000 sandwiches for those experiencing hunger with
Project Rise
for
West Valley Food Pantry, About My Father’s Business, First United Methodist Church Kingdom Food Pantry,
and
Hope the Mission
Writing over 1,000 letters to seniors at
ONEGeneration,
health care workers at
Valley Presbyterian Hospital,
and cancer patients at
City of Hope.
Crafting 1,000 paracord bracelets for active duty service members with
Operation Gratitude
and assembling more than 600 tote bags for seniors with
ONEgeneration
.
Cleaning up the Sepulveda Basin with
Volunteers Cleaning Communities
.
Planting fruit trees with
Tree People
and
the San Fernando Valley Rose Society
at the
Hope the Mission
family shelter in Woodland Hills.
Beautifying and renovating the
New Economics for Women
campus in Canoga Park.
Preparing a community mural with
Arts Bridging the Gap
at the
West Valley YMCA
in Reseda.
Training more than 100 volunteers in CPR with the
American Red Cross
.
Hosting a blood drive with
Cedars-Sinai
to donate 36 pints of blood.
Planting a new native plant garden with the
Santa Monica Mountains Fund
and
San Fernando Valley Audubon Society
at the
Mid Valley YMCA
.
Crafting 35 blankets for survivors of domestic violence at
Haven Hills
.
Helping to find a new home for eight dogs adopted from
Foxy and the Hounds
.
Assemblymember Gabriel was joined by Assemblymember Pilar Schiavo (D - Santa Clarita), Senator Caroline Menjivar (D - San Fernando Valley), and Los Angeles County Supervisor Lindsey P. Horvath.
###
Jesse Gabriel proudly represents the San Fernando Valley in the California State Legislature