SACRAMENTO, CA – Today, Assemblymember Connolly passed
Assembly Bill (AB) 828
out of the Assembly Water, Parks & Wildlife Committee, which allows managed wetlands and small disadvantaged communities to use their average annual water usage without being subject to excessive fines by Groundwater Sustainability Agencies (GSAs) as part of the Sustainable Groundwater Management Act (SGMA). Several GSAs are proposing groundwater allocations that are unworkable for rural communities and endangered wetlands. AB 828 will protect small communities’ access to safe and affordable drinking water and keep some of the state’s last wetlands from going dry.
“
Wetlands are a critical natural resources for our state, and small, rural communities are being hit the hardest by the state’s depleting groundwater resources,” said Assemblymember Damon Connolly (D-San Rafael). “These disadvantaged communities usually depend on a single source for their water supply, leaving them vulnerable to drought and affordability challenges. AB 828 brings California closer to protecting safe and clean water accessibility for all California communities. ”
“Small disadvantaged communities have been impacted by dry wells, increasingly contaminated water and failing infrastructure due to subsidence,” said Jennifer Clary, California Director for Clean Water Action.  “SB 828 takes a small step to even the playing field and ensure that small communities can have a future.”
“AB 828 proposes a modest correction to make sure that our public investments in wetland conservation easements and wildlife areas remain valuable for people and wildlife,” said Ellen Wehr with the Grassland Resource Conservation District. “We are pleased the bill passed out of Committee today and look forward to further engagement on this important issue.”
Only five percent of California’s historic wetlands remain. Managed wetlands in California provide significant habitat for migratory waterfowl of the Pacific Flyway, endangered species, and many other resident wildlife and fish populations. Additional public benefits include water quality improvement, flood protection, recreation, and opportunities for scientific research. These important public trust resources continue to face numerous threats, including water availability.
Nearly 85% of Californians depend on groundwater for their public water supply. That number increases for small water systems, which serve rural communities of only a few thousand people. In these small disadvantaged communities, a new water well is a huge financial issue that many are ill-equipped to handle. AB 828 will help ensure that the groundwater needs of these vulnerable users are better-accounted for by SGMA.
AB 828 now heads to the Assembly Appropriations Committee.
###
Assemblymember Connolly represents the entirety of Marin County and Southern Sonoma County