OAKLAND
–
On Sept. 6, Assemblymember Mia Bonta (D – Oakland) and
VSP Vision™
Eyes of Hope®
sponsored a community vision care event hosted by the Native American Health Center that brought eye care to Oaklanders in need.
The event provided approximately 75 adults and children in the Oakland area with free eye exams and, for those in need, free prescription glasses. Most glasses were provided the same day on board the mobile clinic, allowing patients to receive eye care and eyewear in the same visit.
The press conference celebrated the collaboration between Assemblymember Mia Bonta, VSP Vision, and the Native American Health Center, as well as the fundamental care provided at the East Oakland event. The event was possible due to doctors who provided care to the patients, many of whom received their first-ever vision exam and prescription eyewear at the clinic.
Eye health and clear vision benefit education, employment, quality of life, overall health and so much more, yet
1.1 billion people around the world live with vision impairment
and can’t get the care they need for a variety of reasons.
“I didn’t have eye care insurance until my late 20s, so being able to provide this opportunity for the community is incredibly meaningful. If we can help a young child in their first days of school, or an elder trying to walk around their community by just providing this essential service of vision care, then we are doing the right thing. Proper vision care is a right, regardless of where you live or how much money you make, so this is the best form of meeting community where they are. Beautiful things happen in Oakland,”
said Assemblymember Mia Bonta (D – Oakland).
“We saw over 1,000 bills in the legislative session, and I got to author a bill, AB 2340, that is actually waiting for the Governor to sign right now and will improve access to early observation, intervention, and health screenings for young children. That, to me, is an embodiment of what this event shows we need every single day.”
“For many in our community, access to quality eye care remains out of reach due to lack of insurance or financial constraints. This is why the VSP Eyes of Hope platform is so crucial,”
said Dr. Anjuli Piya of the Native American Health Center.
“Today marks a significant step in our ongoing mission to provide comprehensive health care to our community. We’re thrilled to host this eye clinic for uninsured individuals, in collaboration with Assemblymember Mia Bonta and VSP® Vision Care.”
“Over 75 Oaklanders received eye exams today and glasses if they needed them,”
said Pat McNeil, Chief Communications Officer of VSP Vision.
“This was a particularly special event for VSP Vision Eyes of Hope because VSP started right here in Oakland, California, in 1955. As of today, over 4 million people in need have received no-cost eye care and eyewear through our VSP Vision Eyes of Hope programs alongside great partners like Assemblymember Mia Bonta and the Native American Health Center.”
“Thank you, Assemblymember Mia Bonta, for your continued leadership in our community. As Chair of the Assembly Health Committee, you have been a champion of healthcare policies in our state that increase access to care for those who need it most. Not only are you doing wonderful work at the state level, but you’re here on the ground in your district,”
said Natalie Aguilera, CEO of the Native American Health Center.
“Thank you to VSP Vision, Assemblymember Mia Bonta, and the incredible NAHC team; this partnership provided over 75 community members, including women, children, and elders, with no-cost vision care by meeting our community where they are at.”
Access more photos and videos of the event
HERE
.
###
Assemblymember Mia Bonta
represents California’s 18th Assembly district encompassing the East Bay including Oakland, Alameda, and Emeryville. She also chairs the Assembly Health Committee.