Bill will fight book bans at public libraries
Torrance, CA
– California Governor Gavin Newsom signed Assemblymember Al Muratsuchi's (D-Torrance), Chair of the Assembly Education Committee, Assembly Bill (AB) 1825, the California Freedom to Read Act. The bill prohibits public libraries from banning books or other materials because of the topics, views, ideas, or opinions contained in them or in a manner that discriminates based on race, nationality, gender identity, sexual orientation, religion, disability, political affiliation, or socioeconomic status. The bill will also require public libraries to develop a collection development policy, which includes how the public can challenge library materials.
"I am thankful to Governor Newsom for passing my AB 1825, the California Freedom to Read Act. In California, we know that our freedom to read is a cornerstone of our democracy," said Assemblymember Al Muratsuchi. "Unfortunately, there is a growing movement to ban books nationwide, and this bill will ensure that Californians have access to books that offer diverse perspectives. Those diverse perspectives include books containing the voices and lived experiences of LGBTQ and communities of color."
"Learning and engaging with diverse ideas is foundational to any healthy democracy. The recent call by some to limit access to books does more than suppress the subject matter – it also disregards the lived experiences and identities of authors and readers. We are pleased that the fundamental First Amendment right of access to diverse and inclusive information at our public libraries will be further protected across the state," said Cynthia Valencia, Legislative Advocate, American Civil Liberties Union California Action.
"The California Library Association (CLA) applauds Governor Newsom for signing AB 1825 and for his long-standing defense of the Freedom to Read," said Shawn Thrasher, President of the California Library Association. "Banned Books Week' seems like such an appropriate time to celebrate this signing, as the event highlights the positive role of public libraries as a trusted marketplace of ideas and information. CLA also thanks Assemblymember Muratsuchi for his leadership on this important bill to protect intellectual freedom."
"Governor Newsom's signing of AB 1825 is a major victory in the fight against growing efforts to censor LGBTQ+ voices and experiences in California and across the country," said Equality California Executive Director Tony Hoang. "We are grateful to Assemblymember Muratsushi for championing this crucial legislation to protect Californians' freedom to access books in our public libraries that reflect our state's rich diversity and give LGBTQ+ people the ability to see their own stories and communities reflected in the books they read. We celebrate this important win for intellectual freedom and will continue to push back against efforts to restrict access to LGBTQ+ stories, histories, and experiences."
According to the American Library Association (ALA), the number of reported book challenges in the United States increased 65 percent from 2022 to 2023, reaching the highest level documented by the ALA. Pressure groups in 2023 focused on public libraries as well as school libraries. The number of book titles targeted for censorship at public libraries increased by 92 percent over the previous year, while school libraries saw an 11 percent increase over 2022 numbers. Book titles containing subject matter on LGBTQ and communities of color made up 47 percent of those targeted in censorship attempts. In California, in communities such as the City of Huntington Beach and Fresno County, there were 52 challenges to 98 book titles in public libraries and school libraries in 2023, compared to 32 attempts to ban 87 titles in 2022.
Assemblymember Al Muratsuchi represents California's 66th Assembly District, which includes El Segundo, Gardena, Hermosa Beach, Lomita, Los Angeles, Manhattan Beach, Palos Verdes Estates, Rancho Palos Verdes, Redondo Beach, Rolling Hills, Rolling Hills Estates, San Pedro and Torrance. Muratsuchi is Chair of the Assembly Education Committee, Chair of the Assembly Select Committee on Aerospace, and a member of the Committees on Budget, Budget Subcommittee on Education, Higher Education, Natural Resources, and the Joint Legislative Committee on Climate Change Policies.
CONTACT:
Kerry Jacob (Asm. Muratsuchi),
Kerry.Jacob@asm.ca.gov