Sacramento, CA –
Today, legislation authored by
Assemblywoman Cottie Petrie-Norris (D-Irvine) to strengthen California’s laws regulating domestic violence perpetrators and firearms passed the State Assembly’s Committee on Public Safety with strong bi-partisan support.
Under existing law, a perpetrator of domestic violence may retain a firearm if it’s necessary for their work – for instance, a law enforcement officer or security guard. There are several reasons for this, including the fact that it may allow for ongoing financial support and stability for the victims of domestic violence and their family.
However, advocates for victims of domestic violence and gun violence prevention organizations agree that the current exception is too broad and confusing. This increases the possibility that someone receives an exemption to retain their firearm when they should not. It is well known – and supported by
academic research
– that the risks of homicide are severely enhanced when firearms are present during instances of domestic violence.
AB 2759 proposes several important revisions to clarify and strengthen the law and ensure there is a more rigorous procedure for when a court may allow an abuser to keep their firearm for their job. This will better protect survivors of domestic violence, their families, and the public at large.
WHAT PEOPLE ARE SAYING:
Assemblywoman Cottie Petrie-Norris (D-Irvine)
said, “Gun violence is one of the most pressing issues we face in America. Here in the Legislature we are working with urgency to tackle this crisis and keep our families and children safe. I am grateful to be partnering with a group of outstanding advocates in this fight.”
Women’s Foundation California, Solis Policy Institute Trauma Services and Prevention Team
said, “We're focused on keeping victims of domestic violence and Californians safe. By strengthening firearm safety guidelines, we can protect lives and create safer communities. Investing in firearm safety means investing in a better future for everyone. We are very proud to be sponsoring this Legislation with Assemblymember Petrie-Norris.”
Julia F. Weber, Esq., MSW, Consultant with GIFFORDS
said, “Protecting families, household members, and the broader community is critical in domestic violence situations. That's why GIFFORDS is proud to support the improvements proposed in Assemblymember Petrie-Norris' AB 2759, which focuses on decreasing risks in domestic violence cases. We thank Assemblymember Petrie-Norris for her leadership.”
Beth Hassett, CEO of WEAVE
said, “WEAVE is Sacramento’s primary provider of crisis response services to survivors of domestic violence, sexual assault, and sex trafficking. Every day, we see the nexus between these crimes and firearms. We are pleased to stand in strong support of AB 2759.”
This is the final of four pieces of legislation authored by Assemblywoman Petrie-Norris this year focused on reducing gun violence in California and supporting survivors of domestic violence.
Her other bills also moving through the Legislature are:
Assembly Bill 2096 expands the availability of School Violence Restraining Orders so that California’s public colleges and universities may utilize this important remedy to protect their students and staff from those who have made threats to the school.
Assembly Bill 1974
requires that court-appointed mediators and child custody evaluators undergo training on the dangers of owning and possessing firearms. These professionals work with families during conflicted child custody hearings, and due to the enhanced risks associated with firearm possession during instances of domestic abuse, this reflects a gap in their training.
Assembly Bill 3072
better protects children during supervised visits by requiring that a court consider a parent’s illegal access to firearms when making a decision between in-person and virtual visitation. There have been several recent high profile cases where a child was harmed during an in-person, court-ordered parental visit. This has led to a renewed focus on ensuring that children are safe during court-ordered visitation.