(
SACRAMENTO, CA) –
In a significant move to protect individuals from online harassment, California Governor Gavin Newsom has signed
AB 1979: The Doxing Recourse Victims Act
into law. This legislation will allow victims the ability to pursue civil action and receive restitution for the harms they endured as the result of being doxed online.
Doxing is the practice of publicly revealing or publishing private or personal information about an individual without their consent. Doxing can include highly personal information like phone numbers, home addresses, passwords, medical records, text messages or other sensitive materials without their permission to exact revenge, embarrass, extort, or exploit victims.
“Online harassment has real-world consequences, and doxing is one of the most dangerous forms of this behavior,”
said Assemblymember Chris Ward (D-San Diego).
“Exposing highly personal and sensitive information can lead to identity theft, harassment, stalking, physical harm –– and even death. The Doxing Recourse Victims Act will give those who have been targeted by these individuals the ability to pursue recourse, reclaim their privacy, hold perpetrators accountable, and regain a sense of safety.”
According to a survey conducted by SafeHome.org,
an estimated 11 million Americans report they have been the victim of doxing, or around 4% of Americans. Roughly half of all victims said their home addresses or emails were made public, while one in four of respondents said they had photos or videos distributed online without their consent.
"As members of our community face unprecedented levels of antisemitism, JPAC is particularly aware of the need for increased deterrents from, and means of accountability for, bullying behavior,"
said David Bocarsly, JPAC Executive Director.
"We know this is also of particular concern for the LGBTQ community. We cannot leave victims helpless and without support to repair damage from doxing. We were proud to organize 22 Jewish groups to join the LGBTQ community in support of AB 1979, and thank Assemblymember Ward for championing this effort to help victims get their lives back on track."
Despite doxing being a crime in California, current law leaves victims with little to no viable resources to hold the offender accountable or recover damages. An arrest must first be made, and a prosecutor must decide to pursue the case. All the while, a victim is left to work through the emotional, physical, financial, and other damages without being made whole for the harms they have endured. AB 1979: The Doxing Victims Recourse Act is signed into law, victims will be able to pursue damages not exceeding $30,000 for pain and suffering, in addition to court costs and attorney fees.
“In recent years, we have witnessed a proliferation of online hate and harassment targeting LGBTQ+ people fueled by vile transphobic rhetoric from right-wing politicians and extremists,”
said Equality California Executive Director Tony Hoang.
“It is now more important than ever to ensure that LGBTQ+ people have the tools they need to defend themselves against these harmful attacks. AB 1979 will allow victims of doxing to hold offenders accountable, access the critical physical and mental health support they need, and get their lives back on track. We are grateful to Assemblymember Ward for championing this important legislation and to Governor Newsom for signing the bill into law.”
AB 1979: The Doxing Recourse Victims Act
will go into effect on January 1, 2025.