A successful CalFresh program has relaunched in November to make healthy fruits and vegetables more affordable. With $10 million in new state funding
secured
by Assemblymember Alex Lee, the CalFresh Fruit and Vegetable Electronic Benefits Transfer (EBT) Pilot Project is now live with
over 90 grocery stores
across California participating in the program.
“I’m proud to see that the CalFresh Fruit and Vegetable EBT Pilot Project is up and running again,” said Assemblymember Lee. “It is an effective and scalable solution to addressing food insecurity. That’s why I worked hard to secure $10 million in state funding to revive this important program. As Chair of the Assembly Human Services Committee, I’ll keep fighting to ensure that all Californians have access to nutritious food.”
The CalFresh Fruit and Vegetable Pilot has served as a critical source of supplemental benefits for individuals and families. For every $1 of CalFresh benefits spent on any fresh fruits and vegetables at a participating retailer, CalFresh recipients get $1 back on their EBT card to spend on any CalFresh-eligible food for up to $60/month. Currently, 92 grocery stores statewide and a farmers’ market in Southern California are offering supplemental benefits through the program.
The CalFresh Fruit and Vegetable Pilot first launched in 2023, but the program ended in April 2024 as it was so popular that funding ran out much sooner than expected. In total, it has served at least 93,000 households and provided $10.5 million in rebates.
As the CalFresh Fruit and Vegetable Pilot is operational once again, the program will help families make ends meet with extra CalFresh benefits. That’s much needed food dollars at a time when
over 20% of families in California
are experiencing food insecurity, and the annual health care costs associated with food insecurity totals
more than $7 billion annually
.
“We are so excited to see this program back in action — reducing hunger, improving health, and supporting California's agricultural economy," said Eli Zigas, Executive Director of Fullwell, the co-sponsor of the effort to expand the CalFresh Fruit and Vegetable Pilot and a partner of three participating grocery store chains. "The Department of Social Services and all the participating grocery stores did a great job getting the program restarted in time for Thanksgiving and the winter holidays. Looking ahead, we hope the Legislature and Governor will make the budget investments necessary so this program can run all year long, helping even more low-income Californians."
“For families in need, the CalFresh Fruit and Vegetable Pilot is a lifeline,” said Lupe Lopez, owner of Arteaga's Food Center, a grocery store chain that is partnering with Fullwell to provide supplemental benefits at four locations in the South Bay. “Having access to fresh, nutritious food keeps their loved ones healthy and helps prevent serious illnesses. It’s about dignity, care, and the hope of a healthier future for their families.”
“We are thrilled that the tremendously successful CalFresh Fruit and Vegetable Pilot is once again operating and providing much needed food resources to California families,” said Jared Call, Director of Policy for Nourish California. “As a co-sponsor of this innovative project for over six years, Nourish California extends our deep gratitude to state budget leaders, particularly Assemblymember Alex Lee, Governor Newsom, our community partners, and state administrators for working together to continue to provide this popular and efficient way to help address the alarming rates of food insecurity across our state. No one should go hungry in the great state of California."
“The Pilot Project is crucial for CalFresh participants. Participants deserve the ability to choose healthy foods for their families, and this program allows them to do exactly that,” said Richard Flores, President of Mother’s Nutritional Center, which has 83 stores in Southern California participating in the program. “Being able to have a healthy, well-rounded diet will result in better health outcomes. With the Pilot, they are not only able to stretch their benefits but are able to make healthier eating choices. It will be a major help during the holiday season as food prices continue to rise.”