SACRAMENTO —
California students will no longer be suspended for voluntarily disclosing their use of substances when seeking help after Gov. Gavin Newsom signed AB 2711, a measure authored by Assemblymember James C. Ramos (D-San Bernardino).
Ramos said, ““I thank the Governor for signing AB 2711 which is the start of ensuring our youth who may be struggling with substance abuse can seek the help they need. I began my time in the legislature creating the Office of Suicide Prevention to support our youth and now we continue that work with early intervention. The implementation of this bill is important and can be lifesaving. By allowing a student to come forward without fear of suspension ensures we take a proactive approach to those struggling with addiction.”
California Youth Empowerment Network advocate Caleb Merrill said, “As someone who struggled with mental health and substance use from a young age, I understand how crucial it is to receive understanding and consistent support rather than punishment. AB 2711 represents a shift towards building up our youth instead of pushing them away, creating an environment where every student can thrive. Reflecting on my own experiences, I see how transformative this bill would have been. It would begin to fill the gaps that many of us fall through, encouraging us to reach out to staff who are better equipped to address our challenges. I thank the Governor for signing AB 2711, ensuring a future where every young person is supported and empowered.”
The lawmaker cited
California Department of Education data
to underscore the troubling numbers of students abusing illegal substances and the uneven application of the punishment:
13 percent of 7
th
graders used alcohol to get drunk – that increases to 52 percent by grade 11.
44 percent of 11
th
graders used cold or cough medicine and,
22 percent used prescription pain medications to get high four or more times in their lives.
Ramos also observed that:
More than 59 percent of drug-related suspensions are of boys,
More than 83 percent are of socioeconomically disadvantaged students, and
83 percent are of youth of color.
Bill sponsors are the California Academy of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry, California Alliance of Child and Family Services, California Youth Empowerment Network and Children Now.
###
Assemblymember James C. Ramos proudly represents the 45
th
Assembly district that includes the Cities of Fontana, Highland, Mentone, Redlands, Rialto and San Bernardino. He is the first and only California Native American serving in the state’s legislature. Ramos chairs the Assembly Budget Subcommittee #6 on Public Safety.