SACRAMENTO - In a move to protect workers’ pocketbooks, Assemblywoman Pilar Schiavo successfully moved AB 2135 past its first hurdle - passing out of the Labor Committee. AB 2135 is aimed at bolstering the rights of employees to seek justice for wage theft by extending the statute of limitations for investigations and ensuring cases aren’t closed simply because the state Labor Commission is unable to complete an investigation. This legislative initiative underscores Assemblywoman Schiavo's commitment to protecting workers’ pocket books by eradicating wage theft, ensuring fair labor practices across the state.
Wage theft is a pervasive issue impacting too many workers, often going unchallenged due to fear of retaliation, insufficient documentation, and the lengthy nature of the complaint process. AB 2135 seeks to dismantle these barriers by providing the Labor Commissioner's office with additional time to assess and resolve complaints, even after the completion of a public works project.
"Introducing AB 2135 is a step towards dismantling the bureaucratic hurdles that have historically been a barrier for workers simply trying to make sure they are paid the fair wages they are owed. When investigations into wage theft are left unresolved, workers are the ones who suffer and unscrupulous employers are allowed to continue taking advantage of vulnerable workers. Our goal is to empower employees and ensure they have the confidence and support to report injustices," stated Assemblywoman Schiavo.
“Plumbers and Pipefitters Local 761 strongly supports AB 2135 because it enforces prevailing wage laws. It will help workers get paid the proper wage and holds bad contractors accountable.” stated Greg Lewis, Business Manager for Plumbers and Pipefitters Local 761.
"In 2020 alone, nearly 2,000 cases of wage theft were reported in the context of public works projects, with a significant portion dismissed due to the expiration of the statute of limitations. It's unacceptable for workers to suffer because of systemic inefficiencies. AB 2135 will safeguard their rights by allowing more time for their complaints to be thoroughly investigated," added Schiavo.
###
Assemblywoman Pilar Schiavo was elected to the California State Assembly in November of 2022 to represent the 40th Assembly District, representing the Northwest San Fernando Valley and the Santa Clarita Valley. Upon her election, she was appointed as Assistant Majority Whip by the Speaker of the Assembly and now serves as Chair of the Assembly Committee on Military and Veterans Affairs. Prior to her election, Assemblywoman Schiavo was a Nurse Advocate and Small Business Owner who worked in the labor movement for more than 20 years. Throughout her career, Assemblywoman Schiavo helped deliver healthcare, including reproductive healthcare, to more than one million people and fought to put critical dollars in the pockets of workers. In the Northwest San Fernando Valley, she co-founded an organization that helped secure housing for Veterans experiencing homelessness, co-founded an organization that delivered more than 50,000 meals to people in need, and increased resources to help keep our communities safe. Assemblywoman Schiavo lives in Chatsworth with her daughter Sofia where they love to hike in the Santa Susana Mountains.