Screenwriter, director and producer Dustin Lance Black receives the AD51 Community Excellence Award for LGBTQ+ Inclusion and Visibility on Sunday, Dec. 15, 2024.
LOS ANGELES, CA
—In case you missed it, Assemblymember and Democratic Caucus Chair Rick Chavez Zbur (D-Hollywood) hosted his inaugural Assembly District 51 Community Excellence Awards at The Edythe & Eli Broad Stage at Santa Monica College’s Performing Arts Center. Esteemed dignitaries and residents alike gathered to celebrate outstanding community leaders whose work continues to make the 51st Assembly District a beacon of inclusivity, compassion, and innovation. Honorees included an Academy Award-winning screenwriter, an award-winning actor and director, nonprofit leaders, homelessness advocates, environmental advocates, advocates against antisemitism, and many more.
“People are doing amazing work trying to lift up our vulnerable communities, trying to help with homelessness, working on climate change, working on reproductive rights, fighting antisemitism, and fighting for LGBTQ+ civil rights,”
said Assemblymember Rick Chavez Zbur.
“We showcased all these really important and amazing contributions that are happening in the 51st District. No matter what is happening on the national level, we have an ability to lift up people in our community. We as individuals have a lot of power to make change for the future.”
“Today was such a shining example of Assemblymember Zbur’s philosophy, which is bringing these people together who all have what seem to be very different causes, needs, and beliefs,”
said Academy Award-winning screenwriter Dustin Lance Black, recipient of the AD51 Community Excellence Award for LGBTQ+ Inclusion and Visibility.
“Being able to be here and hear those stories first-hand from people who need change, well that’s the business I’m in, which is taking those stories, bringing them to a higher platform where more people can hear them so we can see the change we need for the people who need it most. This is a district that understands diversity, it understands how to rise to a challenge, and it certainly understands the power of storytelling.”
“Assemblymember Zbur has been one of the few, very outspoken and clear leaders about the effects of antisemitism in our community. He’s been a leader and he’s used his voice and his platform, and that has been too rare,”
said Jewish Community Leader Dena Bloom, recipient of the AD51 Community Excellence Award for Combating Antisemitism.
“Assemblymember Zbur will always use his voice wherever it’s needed whether it’s antisemitism, environmentalism, for the LGBTQ+ community, for women’s rights, it goes on. We can’t be grateful enough for all that Rick does.”
“I was the first Black, queer, commissioner of the West Hollywood Public Safety Commission,”
said West Hollywood Public Safety Commissioner Tod Hallman, recipient of the AD51 Man of the Year Award.
“My mother raised my sister and me to be active participants in the community. I never in a million years fathomed that I would receive an award, much less Man of the Year, so I’m incredibly humbled and honored.”
“I’m so incredibly humbled and honored. I never in a million years fathomed that I would receive an award, much less Man of the Year,”
said West Hollywood Public Safety Commissioner Tod Hallman, recipient of the AD51 Man of the Year Award.
“My late mother taught my sister and me two essential lessons; the love of family and community. As the first Black, queer commissioner of the West Hollywood Public Safety Commission - the city of West Hollywood
is
my family and community.”
See below the full list of Awardees:
AD51 Community Excellence Award for LGBTQ+ Inclusion and Visibility
Dustin Lance Black
Tom Daley
AD51 Community Excellence Award for Combating Antisemitism
Dena Bloom
Lauryn Harris Pimstone
Jonah Platt
AD51 Woman of the Year Award
Lillian Raffel
AD51 Man of the Year Award
Tod Hallman
AD51 Nonprofit of the Year Award
Williams Institute
AD51 Small Business of the Year Award
Pink’s Hot Dogs
Mickey Fine Pharmacy
AD51 Community Excellence Award for Distinguished Service in Local Government
Hon. Lili Bosse
Hon. Gleam Davis
Hon. Dr. Julian Gold
AD51 Community Excellence Award for Social Justice
Rabbi Mari Chernow (Temple Israel Hollywood)
Hollywood Food Coalition
AD51 Excellence in Journalism Award
Rance Collins
AD51 Community Excellence Award for Neighborhood & National Advocacy
Brian Colker
Susan Sheu
AD51 Community Excellence Award for Neighborhood Advocacy
Cindy Chvatal-Keane
AD51 Community Excellence Award for Environmental Protection
Marian Dodge
AD51 Community Excellence Award for Public Safety Advocacy
Melrose Action
Danny Lee
AD51 Community Excellence Award for Homelessness Advocacy
Kerry Morrison
The event’s livestream can be viewed
here
.