Tustin, CA
– Assemblywoman Cottie Petrie-Norris, Orange County United Way and local partners delivered 2,000 school supply kits to the Tustin Unified School District as part of the 2nd annual Tustin School Supply Drive. The school supply kits will be distributed by teachers and Family Resource Centers to elementary students at all eight Title I elementary schools at the beginning of the school year.
The Tustin School Supply Drive was launched by Assemblywoman Petrie-Norris and Orange County United Way to fulfill the goal of ensuring elementary school children have essential supplies for class. Numerous individuals and community-based organizations generously donated the backpacks and other items including scissors, writing utensils and notebooks. The increasing costs of school supplies can be a barrier for many Tustin families in need as they struggle with other expenses.
“I am so grateful to our partners coming together again for our 2nd annual Tustin School Supply Drive to donate school supplies for Tustin elementary school students,” said
Assemblymember Cottie Petrie-Norris (D-Irvine)
. “Our community is committed to helping our students get a head start to the new school year.”
"We are thrilled to partner again with Assemblywoman Cottie Petrie-Norris and provide much-needed resources and supplies to create a positive impact on Orange County students' lives and help them maximize their learning opportunities,” said
Susan B. Parks, President and CEO of Orange County United Way
.
“We are grateful to be a part of a community that wraps its arms around our students, teachers and schools, said
Mark Johnson, Superintendent, Tustin Unified School District
. “Across all of our campuses, we are committed to implementing best teaching practices to meet the diverse needs of our students.  We are honored to do this work with the support of community partners across TUSD.”
This year’s Tustin School Supply Drive partners include: Orange County United Way, Pacific Life, Rotary Club of Tustin-Santa Ana, Tustin Area Woman’s Club, Tustin Community Foundation and Arvida Book Co.
The Tustin Unified School District serves over 24,000 students at 18 elementary schools, a K-8 school, 5 middle schools, and 4 high schools. There are eight Title I elementary schools in TUSD committed to implementing best teaching practices to meet the needs of their diverse students.