SACRAMENTO, CA –
Toda
y, six of
Assemblymember Damon Connolly’s (D-San Rafael) bills passed out of the Senate Appropriations Committee and will be heard on the Senate floor. The State Legislature now has two weeks to hear and vote on each bill, and each bill that passes out of the Legislature goes to the Governor to be signed or vetoed. Assemblymember Connolly passed six bills out of the Appropriations Committee today, which will join his other bills that are waiting to be taken up on the Senate floor.  These bills cover a range of issue areas, including pesticide regulations, habitat preservation, and defense of our endangered wetlands. The legislation that passed out of the Senate Appropriations Committee today includes:
AB 99: Prohibits use of RoundUp on state highways.
AB 1864: Strengthens the regulations for pesticide use near schools.
AB 2196: Codifies and expands the beaver restoration program.
AB 2416: Expands the Safer from Wildfires program.
AB 2734: Expands the Healthy Soils program.
AB 2968: Improves wildfire evacuation protocols in schools.
These bills will join Assemblymember Connolly’s six other bills that are already eligible to be heard on the Senate floor. The other six bills in Assemblymember Connolly’s bill package include:
AB 828: Protects endangered wetlands and access to clean drinking water.
AB 1778: Authorizes a pilot program in Marin County and its cities prohibiting kids under sixteen years of age from riding a class 2 e-bike and requiring helmet use.
AB 1790: Requires the California State University system to strengthen protections against sexual harassment and update their policies on sexual harassment complaints and allegations.
Signed into law by the Governor. Chapter 86, Statutes of 2024.
AB 2251: Authorizes school districts to exempt high school students with absences related to their mental or physical health from additional graduation requirements beyond those required by the state.
AB 2897: Expands the definition of a community land trust so it may be used by a community for its wide array of diverse purposes.
AB 2143: Moves the government code sections related to fairs.
###
Assemblymember Connolly represents the entirety of Marin County and Southern Sonoma County