Irvine, CA
– In honor of Veterans Day, Assemblywoman Cottie Petrie-Norris hosted the sixth annual Veterans of the Year ceremony at Irvine Valley College, recognizing three veterans for their outstanding military service and contributions to fellow veterans and the community.
“It was a privilege to recognize these remarkable veterans who have made significant sacrifices for our nation and contributed enormously to our communities and fellow veterans throughout Orange County,” said
Assemblymember Cottie Petrie-Norris
(D-Irvine)
. “We owe a profound debt of gratitude to the courageous individuals who have served in the United States Armed Forces, fighting for our freedom and democracy.”
“It's an honor to receive this award from Assemblywoman Petrie-Norris, and I'm grateful to Costa Mesa Mayor John Stephens for nominating me,” said
Victor Bakkila
,
2024 Costa Mesa Veteran of the Year
. “The city of Costa Mesa was founded by veterans and continues to honor and work with veterans and their families in the community for a better tomorrow.”
“Being recognized among such distinguished veterans at the 2024 Veterans of the Year Ceremony is a profound honor, and I extend my heartfelt thanks to Assemblywoman Cottie Petrie-Norris for hosting this inspiring event,” said
Dr. Martha McDonald
,
2024 Irvine Veteran of the Year
. “This award is a humbling reminder of my journey—from my early days as the first woman to complete and teach at the Marine Corps Security Forces School, to my ongoing work supporting diverse students and veterans at Irvine Valley College. I am inspired by my fellow honorees and all service members who, through their dedication, continue to strengthen our nation and foster more inclusive communities. This is a testament to the enduring values we uphold."
This year’s ceremony was held at Irvine Valley College and included dignitaries and guests from the cities of Costa Mesa, Irvine, and Tustin, South Orange County Community College District, Irvine Valley College, and various veterans service organizations and nonprofit organizations in the 73rd Assembly District.
2024 Veterans of the Year Honorees
:
Victor Bakkila, Colonel, U.S. Army Reserve
Colonel Victor Bakkila served in the U.S. Army Reserve for 37 years, with combat experience in Iraq and training from Army Ranger, Airborne, and Air Assault Schools. He retired in November 2022 after serving 26 years with the Costa Mesa Police Department, where he held roles in Patrol Services, Detective Bureau, Traffic Safety, SWAT, and various supervisory positions. He became the Field Operations Division Commander and Services Division Commander before his promotion to captain in 2020. Colonel Bakkila is a member of the Freedom Committee of Orange County. Their mission is to bring Living History into the classrooms by sharing stories from all generations. Currently, he is the Director of Retail Security at South Coast Plaza. Colonel Bakkila holds a Master’s in Homeland Security from American Military University and a Bachelor’s in Criminology from California State University, Fresno.
Martha McDonald, Staff Sergeant, U.S. Marine Corps
An accomplished veteran, Dr. Martha McDonald served over seven years on active duty in the United States Marine Corps and five years in the Reserves, reaching the rank of Staff Sergeant. Notably, she was the first woman to complete the Marine Corps Security Forces School and the first woman to complete the Small Arms Weapons Instructor Course at Marine Corps Base, Quantico, Virginia. She broke even more barriers when she became the first woman instructor at the Marine Corps Security Forces School. Dr. McDonald is a transformational leader dedicated to student success and closing achievement gaps for minoritized and low-income students. As Vice President for Student Services at Irvine Valley College, she oversees the Student Services division and co-leads the President’s Advisory Council on Diversity, Equity, Inclusion, and Accessibility. With experience in teaching, counseling, and administration, she has led innovative programs, including the state-recognized Veterans Services Center. An immigrant and first-generation college student, she earned her Ed.D. in Educational Leadership from California State University, Fullerton. Dr. McDonald was a 2023-24 Aspen Rising Presidents Fellow at the Aspen Institute.
Michael Carter, Sergeant, U.S. Marine Corps
From 2004 to 2013, Sergeant Michael Carter served as an Infantry Unit Leader in the U.S. Marine Corps, where he led military operations and ensured his unit’s combat readiness. His nearly nine years of service honed his leadership and tactical skills, demonstrating his dedication to national defense. Since 2021, he has served as Veteran Services Operations Manager at Goodwill of Orange County, leveraging his military experience to support veterans. His career reflects a strong commitment to service, public safety, and leadership across diverse sectors.