(Sacramento) Earlier this week, the Assembly unanimously approved higher education legislation authored by Assemblymember David Alvarez (D-San Diego) with bipartisan support. These bills reflect a commitment by Assemblymember Alvarez to making higher education more accessible and equitable for all students, addressing various barriers that have traditionally limited opportunities for many individuals.
Assembly Bill 2586, the Opportunity for All Act, would provide equal access to employment opportunities for all students, regardless of their immigration status, at the University of California (UC), California State University (CSU), and California Community Colleges (CCC) campuses.
AB 2586 will address the inequities faced by undocumented students in completing their degrees and supporting themselves financially while completing their education. This legislation ensures that all students, regardless of their immigration status, can contribute to and benefit from the state's rich educational and employment ecosystem, bolstering California's position as a leader in diversity, innovation, and opportunity.
“America has always promised that if you work hard, you will have the opportunity to succeed,” said Assemblymember David Alvarez. “These students have fulfilled their obligation and are ready to be our future teachers, scientists, doctors, and public servants. AB 2586 will provide them with the opportunity to work. Creating these pathways to secure employment is essential.”
Assembly Bill 2953 seeks to alleviate hurdles to higher education access for first generation students in California. It would require the California State University (CSU) and requests the University of California (UC) to develop and implement a 4-year accountability and outreach plan specifically for first-generation college students.
“As a first-generation college graduate and proud product of the California State University system, I am a testament to how higher education is pivotal in leveling socioeconomic disparities,” said Assemblymember Alvarez. “AB 2953 ensures that our first-generation students are being outreached to, especially in areas that are disproportionally underrepresented with low rates of college admission. Research shows a significant number of first-generation students are students of color, many of whom may not meet the eligibility criteria for California's public universities. Together, we can make a tangible difference in strengthening outreach programs and empowering first-generation students across our state.”
Assembly Bill 2326 makes history in the State Legislature by ensuring campus programs are free from discrimination and will require the CA Community Colleges (CCC), the CA State University (CSU), the University of CA (UC), and various CA Independent Colleges and Universities to annually present to the Legislature on how their institutions are actively preventing and addressing discrimination on campus.
“I am proud author to AB 2326. For the first time in the Legislature’s history, we can provide oversight and compliance reporting at our campuses,” said Assemblymember Alvarez. “For decades there have been attempts to address sex discrimination at higher education institutions. With this bill, we are making a pathway forward to partner with higher education institutions to assist in the fulfillment of the promise to provide educational programs free from sex discrimination for students and employees.”
Assembly Bill 2633 allows the California State University (CSU) to award joint undergraduate, graduate, and doctoral degrees in partnership with international institutions.
“The district I represent shares a border with Mexico, therefore, providing greater access to higher education for our binational residents is important for our region’s success,” said Assemblymember Alvarez. “This bill would strengthen our cross-border partnerships by providing a new opportunity for our California State University students to cultivate global perspectives through pursuing an international joint degree program.”