CENTRAL COAST
— To address the disparities in access to vision care for communities in need across the Central Coast, Assembly Speaker Robert Rivas partnered with
VSP Vision Eyes of Hope
to provide free eye exams and eyewear for young students at El Sausal Middle School in Salinas, in addition to free clinics across the region.
“As the grandson of farmworkers, I understand how access to quality and affordable health care can be challenging, even for hard-working families. These partnerships truly make a difference and ensure students and adults receive the eye and vision care they deserve,”
Speaker Robert Rivas said
.
El Sausal Middle School was the first of a three-stop tour to provide approximately 275 adults and children in the Salinas, Gilroy and Watsonville communities with free eye exams and, if needed, free prescription glasses.
At the school, the Speaker’s team and VSP representatives set up a waiting-room area, pre-testing station, an eyewear shop and portable exam equipment, where student-patients received comprehensive exams by volunteer optometrists. Students were also provided with free prescription glasses to address their specific vision needs.
The event also included one of the bright blue VSP Eyes of Hope mobile clinics, where prescription glasses are made on-board, so that many patients were able to receive their glasses that same day. In total, 84 patients at El Sausal Middle School received exams.
“Eye care and annual eye exams are key components to a person’s overall health and wellbeing, but many people don’t have access to the care they need to be able to see their world clearly,”
said Dr. Stephanie Kirschbaum, a VSP network optometrist
. “Eye health and clear vision directly correlate to a person’s education, employment, overall health, quality of life, and much more – and it feels great to help protect the gift of sight and make a difference in this community.”
El Sausal Middle School in Salinas serves a population that is predominantly Latino, with a majority of students classified as English Language Learners. Many of the students come from rural and low-income families, who often lack access to adequate and affordable vision and health care.
Because regular eye exams are key components of a student’s overall health and well-being, it is critical for collaborations and partnerships are critical to ensuring students have access the eye care and eyewear they need to be more productive in and out of the classroom, and see the world more clearly.
“By addressing barriers of income, distance, and disaster,
VSP Eyes of Hope
helps to provide equitable access to eye care and eyewear where it’s needed most, across the country,”
said Douglas Stoss, Senior Vice President of Government Affairs at VSP
. “Together, alongside great partners like Speaker Robert Rivas, local community groups, and eye doctors, VSP Eyes of Hope has provided no-cost eye care and eyewear to more than 4 million people in need.”
The tour and partnership with VSP Eyes of Hope wouldn’t have come to fruition without the help of a variety of local community groups, including Salinas Union High School District, Alliance on Aging, Veterans Transition Center, City of Gilroy Senior Center, Mt. Madonna YMCA, and Community Bridges.
For television news outlets who could not attend the VSP partnership event with Speaker Rivas, the following link is media feed with soundbites and b-roll:
Speaker Rivas VSP Mobile Clinic on Vimeo
###
Speaker of the Assembly Robert Rivas represents California’s 29th Assembly District, which includes all of San Benito County and portions of Monterey, Santa Cruz, and Santa Clara Counties. For a full biography of Speaker Rivas, click
here
.