SAN FRANCISCO
- Today, Assemblymember Haney (D- San Francisco), District Attorney Brooke Jenkins, and Police Chief Bill Scott called on Governor Newsom to sign AB 2741, which passed out of the legislature with unanimous bipartisan support.
AB 2741 improves public safety outcomes by addressing the rising rates of stolen rental cars that are linked to serious crimes like theft, trafficking, and home invasions. The bill shortens the time that rental car companies have to wait to activate their vehicle tracking system after a vehicle fails to return on time, from 72 to 24 hours. By shortening the window, criminals can be stopped before they use the rental car to commit more serious crimes or leave the country.
“This is all about stopping crime before it’s too late,” said Haney. “Criminals have figured out that there’s a loophole in current California law that allows them to use rental cars as a getaway vehicle to commit heinous crimes. This is a simple fix that will have resounding impacts on our public safety.”
Rental car companies have reported that individuals will pick up a vehicle with what appears to be a valid ID and credit card. The individual will then use that vehicle for a crime, or in some cases, sell the car and ship it out of the country. Under current law, the rental car company has to wait 72 hours before activating their vehicle tracking systems. By that time, the system often shows that the car's last known location is outside of the United States. Additionally, cars that are eventually recovered are often severely damaged and abandoned – or contain stolen goods, mail and packages inside.
Rental car companies have reported that individuals will pick up a vehicle with what appears to be a valid ID and credit card. The individual will then use that vehicle for a crime, or in some cases, sell the car and ship it out of the country. Under current law, the rental car company has to wait 72 hours before activating their vehicle tracking systems. By that time, the system often shows that the car's last known location is outside of the United States. Additionally, cars that are eventually recovered are often severely damaged and abandoned – or contain stolen goods, mail and packages inside.
“The SFPD welcomes any new tools to assist our officers,” said SFPD Chief Bill Scott. “Stolen vehicles — including rental cars — are used in many crimes in our city and across California. Having accurate and timely information about stolen rental cars will help us continue to drive down crime and hold perpetrators accountable.”
AB 2741 now sits on the Governor’s desk and is awaiting a signature.
###