SALINAS —
In an effort to bring much-needed resources to the LGBTQ+ individuals living in rural communities across California, Speaker Robert Rivas joined the California Legislative LGBTQ+ Caucus in Salinas earlier this month as part of their ‘Rural Tour.’ This initiative aims to engage directly with LGBTQ+ leaders and community members to better understand the unique struggles that they face.
“California’s values reflect love, compassion and understanding for
all
communities regardless of race, color, and identity, that is why it was so important for me and my colleagues in the LGBTQ Caucus to come to Salinas to show unity, camaraderie and hear directly from this community to see how we are doing, how we can better serve and be an ally, and to learn how we can continue providing information, resources and support,” said Speaker Robert Rivas.
The weekend of festivities kicked off on Friday, October 11, 2024, when Speaker Rivas and the LGBTQ+ Caucus hosted a town hall at Hartnell College inviting local members and leaders of the LGBTQ+ community, to a safe space to engage in a dialogue directly with the Caucus on the issues that are unique and prevalent in Salinas and surrounding communities. Throughout the dialogue, Speaker Rivas and Caucus members were able to learn , ask, and answer questions from the community about ways to uplift, invest, and protect the LGBTQ+ community in rural spaces.
Some of the key issues that arose during the discussion included a heightened need for healthcare, affordable housing, school support, worker protections, and key investments from the state to further support and uplift the LGBTQ+ community. The town hall concluded with a mixer to allow for members of the Salinas Valley to mingle and get to know the LGBTQ+ Caucus members including Speaker Rivas.
“It was wonderful to meet key leaders in the Salinas Valley community at our latest Rural Tour, alongside Speaker Robert Rivas and Senator John Laird, just in time for Salinas Valley Pride!” said
Assemblymember Chris Ward (D-San Diego)
, Chair-Elect of the California Legislative LGBTQ Caucus. “By hearing about the heightened need for healthcare, housing, behavioral health, school support, and worker protections not unlike many rural communities, we are better informed about priorities we remain committed to for the upcoming session.”
On the second day of the Rural Tour, LGBTQ+ Caucus members first met with a key community leader to discuss important issues impacting migrant farmworkers, including worker protections, public health and safety, and legal support. Then, members met with the Monterey County Behavioral Health Department to discuss key initiatives they are spearheading to support LGBTQ+ youth and their families. By late afternoon, caucus members attended the annual Salinas Valley Pride Celebration to commemorate Pride in the Salinas Valley community.
“Bridging the gap between Sacramento and our rural communities to better serve all Californians, especially those who are LGBTQ+ who are living and working in rural communities demonstrates that we are seriously invested in their well-being. We are always interested in knowing if our work in the State Capitol is addressing their needs, or having a positive impact and hearing directly from them to see if there are gaps and areas of improvement is key. Community events that bring all stakeholders to the table are not only needed, but crucial to our work,” said Speaker Rivas.
Rural equity is a key issue the LGBTQ Caucus holds dear to its work. The ongoing disparity did not arise because of a lack of LGBTQ+ representation in rural areas of California. In fact, it is estimated that roughly 20% of the LGBTQ+ community live in rural areas, despite a severe lack of resources available to support and elevate minority voices in these communities.
At the start of 2023, the California Legislative LGBTQ Caucus spearheaded its statewide “Rural Tour” initiative to allow LGBTQ Caucus members to engage directly with LGBTQ+ leaders and members of these communities and learn of the unique struggles within these areas. Additionally, the tours aimed to bring much-needed resources to LGBTQ+ individuals in rural areas that have been continuously underserved and overlooked.
This year’s tour stop in Salinas ensured LGBTQ+ leaders, individuals, and non-profits were afforded the opportunity to build relationships with state leaders and make clear what they need as support in order to ensure LGBTQ+ people in the Salinas Valley are able to thrive. Additionally, LGBTQ Caucus members gained key relationships and lessons learned to inform their work in Sacramento heading into the next legislative session in order to continue working to build and strengthen rural equity into all the work they do.
“I would like to thank the community members for meeting with us as well as thank Speaker Rivas for his strong leadership in the Salinas Valley and longtime LGBTQ+ allyship,” said Assembymember Chris Ward.
###