Today, Assemblymember Alex Lee introduced AB 3031 to address the inequities and barriers faced by LGBTQ+ community. AB 3031 will create the LGBTQ+ Commission with the goal of improving the health, safety and wellbeing of LGBTQ+ community members. The LGBTQ+ Commission will monitor state legislation, and assess programs and policies affecting the LGBTQ+ community.
“It’s critical that the lived experiences of LGBTQ+ community members are recognized by our government,” said Assemblymember Lee. “The Commission will play an important role in informing policy and programs for the LGBTQ+ community. Creating the LGBTQ+ Commission is another important step forward to ensure that everyone can live authentically and inclusively in our community.”
California is one of the most diverse states in the country. According to the
Public Policy Institute of California
, the Golden State has the largest share of adults who identify as lesbian, gay, bisexual or transgender, compared to any other highly populated state. About 2.7 million or roughly 9% of Californian adults identify as lesbian, gay, bixsexual or transgender.
But there continue to be attempts at silencing the LGBTQ+ community in California and across the U.S. Between 2021 to 2022, there were
over 391 reported hate crime events
motivated by sexual orientation bias in California, an increase of 29% from the previous year.
Meanwhile, local school boards are also
moving
to reverse the gains made by the LGBTQ+ community, whether it be
banning displays of the pride flag
or requiring
parental notifications
of students’ gender identities. In addition, more than 200 pieces of anti-LGBTQ+ legislation in over 40 state legislatures were introduced in 2022, according to the
State of Pride Report
by the California Department of Justice.
“We have made strides in the fight for LGBTQ+ rights, and those who desire to put us back in the closet want us to feel ashamed,” said Assemblymember Lee. “But we are never going back. As a member of the California Legislative LGBTQ Caucus, I will continue to advocate and fight for the voices of our LGBTQ+ community members to be heard.”
Under AB 3031, appointments to California’s LGBTQ+ Commission will be considered among individuals who represent
the diversity of California’s LGBTQ+ community. The LGBTQ+ Commission will be composed of nine members, as follows:
5 members appointed by the Governor.
2 members appointed by the Speaker of the Assembly.
2 members appointed by the Senate Committee on Rules.
“I thank my colleague Assemblymember Alex Lee for introducing this important legislation to establish the California LGBTQ+ Commission, which will empower our LGBTQ+ community with independent representation to advise the Legislature and Governor on policy matters and provide recommendations for future actions we can take to identify and reduce systemic inequalities and barriers,” said Assemblymember Evan Low, joint-author of AB 3031 and a member of the
Legislative LGBTQ Caucus
.
“Thanks to Assemblymembers Alex Lee and Evan Low for authoring legislation that creates a state-level Commission on LGBTQ+ Affairs,” said BAYMEC President Drew Lloyd. “Having a commission that addresses disparities facing California’s queer community and works to elevate our community’s unique experiences, voices, and concerns, is invaluable. BAYMEC enthusiastically endorses the creation of this Commission and looks forward to working with all stakeholders and our community to create a safe and unique space that leads to a better California for All.”
“California has come a long way in the fight for full, lived equality for LGBTQ+ people, but our state is not immune to the wave of anti-LGBTQ+ hate, violence and right-wing extremism sweeping the country,” said Equality California Executive Director Tony Hoang. “California’s commitment to the health, safety and dignity of LGBTQ+ people is needed now more than ever. This commission will be an important demonstration of that commitment and will help ensure that the voices of the most vulnerable members of our community are heard at the highest levels of government.”