After passing the State Legislature with bipartisan support, Assemblymember Alex Lee’s legislation to streamline train electrification projects is on the Governor’s desk. AB 2503 will advance California’s climate goals by helping transit agencies electrify their fleets more rapidly.
“Electric trains are greener, faster and more reliable,” said Assemblymember Lee. “In the midst of the climate crisis, we can’t afford any delays to electrifying California’s trains. AB 2503 will enable transit agencies to electrify their fleets much faster. Train electrification is crucial to reducing greenhouse gas emissions in California and creating a more sustainable transit system.”
For instance, Caltrain’s Electrification Project is a major milestone for the state’s green transportation infrastructure. In September 2024, Caltrain is launching its fully electrified service between San Francisco and San Jose. With new electric trains, Caltrain will be
operating
faster and more frequent services. The fleet will help
reduce
emissions, noise pollution and improve air quality. But
lawsuits
using the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) bogged down Caltrain’s electrification efforts for years.
AB 2503 will help eliminate barriers to future train electrification projects. The bill exempts zero-emission railway projects on existing rails from the requirements of CEQA.
"As we move forward into a new future at Caltrain, AB 2503 ensures that electrified rail projects receive the same environmental review streamlining and priority as other modes of transit, acknowledging and highlighting their contribution to a sustainable and climate resilient future,” said Caltrain spokesperson Dan Lieberman.
California has the goal of reducing greenhouse gas emissions to
at least 85%
below 1990 levels and achieve carbon neutrality by 2045. The California Air Resources Board (CARB)
identifies
the reductions of cars on the road, or Vehicles Miles Traveled (VMT), as a critical strategy to achieving California’s climate goals. CARB notes that attaining VMT reductions include investments in making transit a viable alternative to driving. Electric rail is a more sustainable alternative, and CARB
set new regulation
in 2023 to increase the use of zero-emission trains.
Currently, many passenger and freight rail lines are reliant on diesel locomotives that emit greenhouse gas emissions. By granting CEQA streamlining for rail electrification, AB 2503 will enable transit agencies to advance California’s climate goals and improve rail service. The bill is sponsored by Streets For All and Californians for Electric Rail.
"Overhead electrified rail is the best form of rail for the environment and passengers alike,” said Marc Vukcevich, Director of State Policy for Streets For All. “We need to be doing whatever we can to reduce the barriers to clean, fast, and efficient trains that take cars off the road and ultimately make our communities better for it. We strongly urge the governor to sign the bill and appreciate Assemblymember Lee for his stewardship of this issue."
"Electric rail is a multi-solver for climate change, air pollution, and traffic,” said Adriana Rizzo, a member of Californians for Electric Rail. “Electrification of our railways is critical to meet California's climate goals, and I encourage Gov. Newsom to sign AB 2503 to accelerate overhead electrification of passenger rail. Thank you to Asm. Lee for his leadership and our co-sponsor and all the supporters for helping us get to where we are today."