COMPTON, Calif. -
Believing that our families deserve
#ProgressNotPrisons, Assemblymember Mike A. Gipson (D-Carson) hosted
an expungement clinic that included pathways to a better life for those in need at this past weekend's Compton Expungement & Resource Fair. "The entire community benefits from an event such as this, by helping people who may have a mistake in their past choose to move beyond an old record and towards the life we all wish them to have," said Gipson. "I could not be more pleased to work with the City of Compton and make free help available at the Douglas F. Dollarhide Community Center."
Assemblymember Gipson's Expungement Clinic & Resource Fair preregistered more than 250 individuals from across Los Angeles. The Office of Assemblymember Mike A. Gipson and the City of Compton partnered with likeminded entities that hold trust in our communities:
Californians for Safety and Justice (CSJ) – a program of the Alliance for Safety and Justice that works with Californians from all walks of life to replace prison and justice system waste with commonsense solutions for safe neighborhoods
TimeDone – the largest nationwide community of people with old records, which helps individuals access the tools and resources that can help them succeed
Radio Free 102.3 KJLH
Additionally, resources available on October 20 included Live Scan fingerprinting and services, information for jobseekers, resume workshopping, voter education, and the ability to register to vote.
"Many of our neighbors with a previous conviction are ready to embark on their next chapter, and they deserve a second chance to do so," said Gipson. "We are proud to uplift this successful day as one of many steps towards a compassionate and smart approach to justice in California."
Assemblymember Mike A. Gipson proudly represents the 65th Assembly District which includes the cities and communities of Watts, Willowbrook, Compton, Carson, North Long Beach, Harbor Gateway North & South, Harbor City, Wilmington, and San Pedro.
CONTACT:
Daniel Hom, daniel.hom@asm.ca.gov, (310) 324-6408