Laguna Woods, CA –
Assemblywoman Cottie Petrie-Norris, the City of Laguna Woods, OC Public Libraries and Supervisor Katrina Foley celebrated the grand opening of the expanded Laguna Woods branch of OC Public Libraries. The Assemblywoman secured $500,000 in the FY 2021-22 state budget to complete the library expansion.
“This much-anticipated grand opening marks the culmination of years of planning and dedication to fostering a love for literature, learning, and community connection,”
said Assemblywoman Cottie Petrie-Norris (D-Irvine)
. “The Laguna Woods Public Library promises to be a hub where the pages of books meet the stories of its residents, creating a space where knowledge and imagination flourish.”
“The City of Laguna Woods is thrilled to join our partners at the County of Orange in opening this new home for our public library,”
said Laguna Woods Mayor Noel Hatch
. “Responding to the needs of residents is always our priority and, in this case, residents spoke loud and clear with year after year of increasing demand for public library services. In this new space, with expanded staffing, hours, and collections, plus public computers and exciting new programming, our residents and neighbors will have access to a truly enormous number of enriching resources. We are so grateful to Assemblywoman Cottie Petrie-Norris, our generous residents who contributed to the Founders Wall, and so many more who worked to make this expansion a reality.”
“The OC Public Libraries system has 32 libraries in 24 member cities spread throughout the County, and OCPL is very excited to bring enhanced services and programming to the city of Laguna Woods,”
said County Librarian Julie Quillman
. “Our shared regional collection provides 1.7 million items and beyond just providing materials our staff expertly introduce people of all ages to the right book at the right time. A special thank you to Assemblywoman Cottie Petrie-Norris who was instrumental in securing a state budget appropriation to support the expansion of the library, and to the City and County staff for their hard work toward improving the library to better serve the community.”
The new public library offers an expanded space for technology, a large variety of books and other materials, new programming for Laguna Woods residents and outdoor space for events and activities. Prior to the expansion, the Laguna Woods branch of OC Public Libraries operated from an eight-foot counter inside Laguna Woods City Hall.
The $3 million library expansion was made possible by state budget funding from Assemblywoman Petrie-Norris, the federal American Rescue Plan Act, City of Laguna Woods General Fund dollars, and $50,000 raised by local donors who are recognized on a Founders Wall plaque outside the library’s main entrance.
Public libraries serve as invaluable community resources, fostering education, knowledge-sharing, and cultural enrichment. In keeping with OCPL’s vision of Open Doors, Free Access, & Community - the new facility is curated to prioritize popular materials, offering a carefully selected rotating collection to cater to all interests, and to provide an intimate and accessible space for patrons seeking trending and sought-after reading materials. The library also provides Wi-Fi and computer access, along with diverse programming, to meet the varied needs of the public.