SACRAMENTO
- In an effort to help prevent wildfires from devastating communities, families, homes and businesses, Speaker Robert Rivas announces millions of dollars in grant funding for organizations, projects and communities along the Central Coast.
The Monterey County Regional Fire District, Fire Safe Santa Cruz County, the City of Greenfield, Santa Lucia Preserve, and the San Benito Fire Safe Council/Community Foundation for San Benito County will receive $2,618,086 in grant money for wildfire prevention projects, thanks to
CAL FIRE’s Wildfire Prevention Grants Program.
Last week, the program announced $90 million in total funding for 94 wildfire prevention projects across California . More than two-thirds of the projects were allocated to communities that are low-income or disadvantaged. The funding aims to improve public health outcomes and safety by helping reduce greenhouse gas emissions, hazardous fuels, and prevent wildfires through planning and education.
“Our Central Coast is all too familiar with devastating and destructive wildfires, and this grant funding is critical to organizations committed to prevention, mitigation and keeping our region safe, especially our vulnerable communities,” said Speaker Robert Rivas who represents communities across San Benito, Santa Cruz, Monterey and Santa Clara counties.
The Monterey County Regional Fire District, who works closely with the City of Salinas to provide fire and emergency medical services, and responds to structure, wildland, vehicle, and other types of forest that occur in the district, will receive a $1,063,500 grant for a Community Hazardous Fuels Reduction project.
“Projects and efforts will be focused on fire apparatus access, roadside clearance for emergency egress, assistance in creating improved defensible space for elderly and disadvantaged residents, funding a district-wide multi-year chipping program, and providing resources for clearing and thinning of vegetation within our Firewise communities,” said David Sargenti, Fire Chief for Monterey County Regional Fire District. “We are excited to be able to provide our residents and businesses with tangible programs that will enhance the resiliency of our communities while setting an example of preparedness. These fuel reduction efforts will not only reduce vegetation in areas of heavy growth, but also help to further educate the community about the needs and importance of adequate defensible space. MCRFD has done the research and outreach to the community to identify the mitigation efforts that will have the most impact on reducing wildfire risk. Better access for firefighters, reduced risk of roadside ignitions, continued and updated education, and minimizing fuel near structures, are all important steps in improving the wildland and urban interface.”
The San Benito Fire Safe Council and Community Foundation for San Benito County were first time grantees. The funding will help ensure they continue wildfire prevention and education programs and projects in the San Juan Canyon and Aromas region of the district.
“We are very excited to receive this much-needed grant money that will help us keep our homes,  roads and communities safer.” said Liz Chandler, Firewise Community Coordinator for the San Benito Fire Safe Council. “There are many people living in our smaller communities within the district who take time out of their busy schedules to make their neighborhoods more resilient to wildfire: from educating and promoting home hardening/defensible space best practices to clearing dead trees and flammable fuels from critical roadways.”
She continued, “When we come together to do this work, it makes all of us safer. We appreciate the state recognizing our efforts and helping us take it to the next level. By preparing our roadways and properties, we aren’t just making it safer for residents and first responders. By doing this work, we are making it easier for firefighters to do their jobs with the best chance of a good outcome, should a fire occur.”
Other projects that were funded in the Central Coast:
Over the last five years, the program has funded over 450 wildfire resilience projects that focus on increasing the protection of people, structures, communities and the environment. The program furthers California’s Wildfire and Forest Resilience Action Plan that is funded in part through California Climate Investments which put cap-and-trade dollars to work.
To view a complete list of wildfire prevention grants recipients, visit:
Wildfire Prevention Grants | CAL FIRE
. For more information on wildfire preparedness, visit:
Prepare | CAL FIRE
.
###