SACRAMENTO, Calif.
– Assembly Majority Leader Cecilia Aguiar-Curry (D-Winters) announced today that her Assembly Bill 2680 was signed by Governor Newsom. AB 2680 updates the Alzheimer’s Disease and Related Conditions (ADRD) Advisory Committee to remove stigmatizing language in the code and ensure that Californians impacted by Alzheimer’s disease and related dementia disorders can participate fully in the Committee. The ADRD Advisory Committee is essential for the planning and execution of strategic projects like the 2011 California State Plan for Alzheimer’s disease and the 2021 Master Plan for Aging.
In California alone, there are approximately 690,000 individuals living with Alzheimer’s disease, a number that is expected to double by 2040. This condition disproportionately affects women, African-Americans, and members of the Latinx community who are at increased risk for developing Alzheimer’s.
The ADRD Advisory Committee was established in 1988 to advise the Legislature on the needs of persons impacted by Alzheimer’s disease and dementia and includes representation from people living with Alzheimer’s, their families, caregivers, and providers. The Advisory Committee benefits from the collaborative efforts of its members, but due to its limited membership, several key stakeholders and care providers have been disconnected from its work.
Today, stigma around Alzheimer’s disease still exists due to a lack of public awareness and understanding of the disease. This stigma prevents people from seeking medical treatment in a timely manner, planning for their future, participating in clinical trials and delaying an early or any diagnosis.
“I want to thank Governor Newsom for signing this critical legislation to support Californians living with Alzheimer’s and dementia, as well as their families and caregivers,” said Cecilia Aguiar-Curry (D-Winters). “Since the creation of the ADRD Advisory Committee, the population of people living with Alzheimer’s has increased, the needs of the people affected by Alzheimer’s have changed, and society’s understanding of Alzheimer’s has improved. This bill modernizes the Advisory Committee to ensure Californians impacted by Alzheimer’s disease have their voice heard.  Out of respect for them, we’ve also removed outdated, stigmatizing term limits for members of the panel, and language in the code.”
This bill updates the name of the ADRD to the “Alzheimer’s Disease and Related Conditions Advisory Committee” and expands it to have up to 20 members. Additional members include representatives from the Commission on Aging, an additional consumer representative, one representative from the California Alzheimer’s Disease Centers, two non-voting representatives from the State Legislature, and up to four representatives appointed by the Secretary of Health & Human Services.
"The Alzheimer's Association extends our heartfelt thanks to both Majority Leader Aguiar-Curry and Governor Newsom for their continuing efforts to fight for the needs and priorities for persons impacted by Alzheimer’s disease and related dementias," said Jason Gabhart, Director of Government Affairs at the Alzheimer’s Association.
AB 2680 will ensure that relevant stakeholders’ voices are heard as the Advisory Committee issues necessary advice for addressing Alzheimer’s across California. Importantly, this bill also gives informal caregivers representation on the Advisory Committee by broadening caregiver terminology and removes unfair term limits that do not reflect advances in modern medicine.
###