(Sacramento, CA)
September 27, 2024 – Accessing emergency addiction recovery services will now be easier thanks to a new law authored by Dr. Jasmeet Bains (D-Delano) signed by Governor Gavin Newsom today.
“As a physician and addiction specialist, I know that the addiction crisis facing our state requires mobilizing resources at every level, but bureaucratic red tape has prevented hospitals from offering more recovery services. This change in law, combined with some of the fentanyl task force funding I brought to Kern County, will help combat our ongoing fentanyl crisis,” said Dr. Bains.
AB 2376 streamlines regulatory requirements, enabling additional healthcare facilities to accept more patients for addiction and substance use disorder treatments. Previously, the law restricted the types of facilities that can offer care, including a requirement to segregate substance abuse disorder patients despite posing no risk of contagion.
With 5.3 million Californians struggling with a substance use disorder, addiction continues to be an extremely challenging public health crisis.
In a letter of support, the California Academy of Family Physicians wrote, “AB 2376 will support patients in entering treatment in a non-stigmatizing manner from the hospital rather than forcing them to leave the hospital to wait to enter treatment. Many patients who present to the hospital needing treatment are unhoused, have unstable housing, or need extra time in a safe place until a treatment bed becomes available in their community. This bill will make it easier for hospitals to support patients in entering treatment without experiencing a gap that would threaten their ability to enter and succeed in treatment. This is imperative for ensuring continuity of care for patients.”
According to data from the Centers for Disease Control, since 2015, drug overdose deaths in California have increased from just over 4,500 in a year to a shocking 11,774 reported overdose deaths in 2023.
A policy brief from health policy consultant California Health Policy Strategies (CHPS) found that overdoses disproportionately impact vulnerable populations, and only 10% of Californians with an addiction receive treatment. Since 2017, deaths have risen among teenagers (15 to 19) by 370% and Black and Latinx Californians by 200%.
“This bill makes common sense changes that support proven and cost-effective solutions that allow more patients to access addiction recovery services close to home. I believe these services should be available in every emergency room throughout the state,” said Dr. Bains.
# # #