SACRAMENTO
— Assembly Bill 3233, the latest bill introduced by Assemblymember Dawn Addis (D-Morro Bay), aims to restore the right of local communities to make critical decisions surrounding their welfare, health, and economy.
The Local Environmental Choice and Safety Act (LECSA) clarifies local governments' authority to limit or prohibit oil and gas operations, methods, and locations within their jurisdiction.
"Pollution from oil and gas production causes grave harm to our health, climate, and environment," said Addis. "For more than a century, cities and counties have protected their residents' health and safety by deciding whether, where, and under what conditions to allow oil and gas projects to operate. As California transitions away from its dependency on fossil fuels, more cities and counties have introduced ordinances to ban oil and gas operations. Assembly Bill 3233 uplifts the voices of our local communities by codifying their right to enact these policies."
In recent years, communities such as Monterey, San Benito, and Los Angeles have attempted to limit oil activities. In 2023, the California Supreme Court overturned one of these local initiative ordinances in
Chevron U.S.A. Inc. v. County of Monterey
. If enacted, AB 3233 would uphold such policies by clarifying state and local authority.
AB 3233 is sponsored by the Center for Biological Diversity and is supported by a diverse coalition of environmental, health, and community advocates.
"This bill is vital to defending local governments' authority to protect their residents and the environment from deadly oil and gas pollution," said Jason Pfeifle of the Center for Biological Diversity. "Local governments' most basic responsibility is to safeguard community health and safety. But they can't fight pollution or climate change if they don't have the full range of tools to address oil and gas projects in their own backyards."
AB 3233 currently awaits its first hearing in the Assembly Natural Resources Committee.
Dawn Addis was elected to the California State Assembly in 2022 to represent the coastal 30th Assembly District, which includes San Luis Obispo, Monterey and Santa Cruz Counties.