About one year ago, a group of 12th grade students from the California School for the Deaf-Fremont (CSD) came up with a legislative proposal to increase the visibility of their school
.
Now, Assemblymember Lee’s bill that was inspired by their idea has been signed by the Governor. AB 2367 aims to raise awareness of the invaluable work of state special schools like CSD by allowing highway signs to be built for these schools.
“AB 2367 enables more families to be aware of all the educational opportunities offered by state special schools, and I'm proud that the Governor has signed this important bill,” said Assemblymember Lee. “Throughout the legislative process, students from the California School for the Deaf-Fremont have been engaged and committed to pushing forward their cause. This bill is a prime example of how young people can participate in our democracy.”
CSD, which celebrated its 150th anniversary in 2010, has a rich and storied history in its current location in Fremont, and on its previous campuses in Berkeley and San Francisco. CSD is the sole bilingual school that offers education in American Sign Language and English in the region. Its sister school in Riverside serves Deaf and Hard of Hearing students in Southern California.
“As a teacher, there is nothing more fulfilling than to see your students take on a project that is important to them and see it out to the end,” said Molly Christensen, Social Studies Teacher at CSD. “As my students were graduating last summer, they were talking about how powerful it will be to see that freeway sign one day on a trip home from college and know that families with young Deaf kids will see the California School for the Deaf as a resource for their child.  Assemblymember Lee gave my students the gift of understanding that their elected representatives are responsive to their constituents; and that is a lesson that will extend far beyond this endeavor.”
In fall 2023, CSD students in Molly’s U.S. Government class presented a bill proposal to state legislators, including Assemblymember Lee, to install freeway signage directing people to the school. During the legislative process, they also advocated for highway signage to be built for their neighbor, the California School for the Blind. By doing so, the students hope that more families will be aware of the educational, linguistic, and social opportunities available at the schools.
“The California School for the Deaf community is thrilled to celebrate the passing of AB 2367, which allows for highway signs directing to state special schools like ours to be built,” said CSD Superintendent Amy J Novotny. “This legislation truly makes a difference for our Deaf and Hard of Hearing students. By increasing visibility of our students, AB 2367 aims to strengthen the connections between our schools and the broader community.”
See
here
for photos of Assemblymember Lee’s special event at CSD on October 25, 2024, to celebrate the signing of AB 2367.