(Sacramento) The Committee on Aging and Long-Term Care passed Assemblymember David Alvarez’s (D-San Diego) AB 2075, which would grant residents of Long-Term Care Facilities the right to access a visitor or a healthcare and social service provider in person.
“During COVID-19, families were separated and often prohibited from visiting their loved ones,” said Assemblymember Alvarez. “Anyone with loved ones in a facility knows the importance of staying connected with their family members, even during the pandemic. AB 2075 is the result of hard work by experts and stakeholders invested in improving the overall care of all Californians, and it aims to provide compassionate care while ensuring continued safety for residents of facilities.”
Between 2020 and 2023, the COVID-19 pandemic cost the lives of millions of Americans and irrevocably disrupted the lives of millions more. In 2023, a workgroup was formed by the Legislature to generate recommendations for Long-Term Care Facilities and rules on visitation in the event of a state of emergency. The working group found that visitation is essential for preventing social isolation and loneliness among people who reside in Long-Term Care Facilities, and visitors, in particular family interaction, played a critical role in identifying care issues and advocating for care. Assembly Bill 2075 aims to formalize these recommendations into law and help our most vulnerable populations receive the attention and care they require without being cut off from vital interaction with their loved ones.
"During the COVID-19 pandemic, long term care facilities went into lockdown, shutting out the people who nourished the residents and kept them alive. In order to save residents from COVID, we exposed them to unprecedented isolation, neglect, and despair. AB 2075 ensures that the harmful lockdowns will never be repeated and that long term care facility residents have access to the people who love them most and care for them best,” Said Tony Chicotel
CANHR
“The State Long-Term Care Ombudsman applauds Assemblymember David Alvarez for his leadership in sponsoring AB2075 – The Resident Access Protection Act, which would protect the visitation rights of residents during a public health emergency, if the visitors follow the same public health protocols required by facility staff. Just because a person is in an LTC facility, they should not lose their rights to be treated with the same dignity, independence and respect afforded to all human beings,” Blanca Castro, California State Long-Term Care Ombudsman.
AB 2075 supporters include the California Advocates for Nursing Home Reform (Sponsor), AARP, Alzheimer’s Association, California Assisted Living Association and the California Retired Teachers Association.