AB 2704, a bill to ease the financial burden of criminal background checks on prospective IHSS providers, has passed the Legislature and now awaits the Governor's signature.
SACRAMENTO, CA —
Assemblymember Rick Chavez Zbur (D-Hollywood) announced today that the California Legislature passed AB 2704, a significant piece of legislation aimed at reducing financial burdens on prospective In-Home Supportive Services (IHSS) providers. The bill, sponsored by United Domestic Workers/American Federation of State, County, and Municipal Employees Local 3930 reduces the cost of criminal background checks for prospective IHSS providers, making it easier for qualified individuals to join the workforce and support those in need.
Under current law, prospective IHSS providers are required to cover the cost of their criminal background checks, which can be a financial hurdle for many. AB 2704 addresses this issue by removing the fee imposed by the California Department of Justice for these checks to be conducted, thereby alleviating the burden on those who are already committed to providing essential care services.
"This bill is about strengthening our social safety nets and making it easier for qualified individuals to become IHSS providers and provide care for our elders and people who are ill or disabled," said
Assemblymember Rick Chavez Zbur.
"By reducing the cost of criminal background checks, we're opening doors for more people to enter this critical workforce, ensuring that our most vulnerable populations receive the care they need. AB 2704 is a step toward a more accessible and equitable system for both providers and recipients of care."
The IHSS program is a vital resource for many Californians, allowing them to receive care in their own homes rather than in institutional settings. By making it easier for individuals to become IHSS providers, AB 2704 supports the continued success and expansion of this essential program.
"The elimination of costly background check fees is a win for everyone," said
UDW Executive Director Doug Moore
. "California is approaching a care crisis, and we need IHSS providers now more than ever. Removing this barrier makes care work more accessible to tens of thousands of potential providers who will be the future of care in our great state."
"AB 2704 will reduce barriers to access to care, allowing caregivers to provide important services to the aging and those living with disabilities," said
AFSCME California Director, Alia Griffing
. "We applaud Assemblymember Zbur and the legislature's commitment and continued investment in the IHSS program and finding ways to recruit and retain this critical workforce."
The Governor has until September 30, 2024 to sign the bill.
Assemblymember Rick Chavez Zbur serves as the Democratic Caucus Chair for the California State Assembly and represents the 51st Assembly District, which includes Universal City, Hollywood, Hancock Park, West Hollywood, Beverly Hills, Westwood, West Los Angeles, Santa Monica, and other portions of Los Angeles.
CONTACT:
Vienna Montague, (916) 319-2051, Vienna.Montague@asm.ca.gov