SACRAMENTO, CA
— Assembly Democratic Caucus Chair Rick Chavez Zbur (D-Hollywood) has held the first meeting of the Assembly District 51 (AD51) Homelessness and Housing Advisory Committee. The purpose of the committee is to provide input and recommendations to the Assemblymember to address the crisis of homelessness and housing. This includes providing input on current and future legislative initiatives and budget items.
"I am grateful for the leadership and commitment of the Advisory Committee members," said
Assemblymember Rick Chavez Zbur
. "Their invaluable advice and expertise ensure that we make the best policy decisions for the district. Addressing our homelessness and housing crisis is one of my top priorities, and having the benefit of leaders with an on-the-ground perspective is invaluable in shaping effective solutions."
Members of the AD51 Homelessness and Housing Advisory Committee
Kerry Morrison, Heart Forward LA, Co-Chair
Erick Matos, City of West Hollywood, Co-Chair
Louis Abramson, Hollywood 4WRD
Keith Anyon, St. Joseph Center
Dena Bloom, The Karsh Family Social Service Center
Heather Carmichael, My Friend’s Place
Peggy Davis, The Assistance League of Los Angeles
Steven Davis, City of West Hollywood
Dianna Eisenberg, The Hollywood Media District BID
Joey Espinoza-Hernández, Los Angeles LGBT Center
Mark Loranger, Chrysalis
Michael Hochman, Healthcare in Action
Emily Uyeda Kantrim, Safe Parking LA
Brian Kohan, SELAH
Rev. Kathy Ledesma, Hollywood United Methodist Church
Danny Lee, The Hollywood Media District BID
John Maceri, The People Concern
Chris Paulson, City of Beverly Hills
Scott Peake, The Hollywood Heights Association
Kathleen Rawson, The Hollywood Partnership
Zeke Sandoval, PATH Los Angeles
Lindsay Sturman, Livable Communities Initiative
Hon. Caroline Torosis, Santa Monica City Council
Eli Veitzer, Jewish Family Service of Los Angeles
Brittney Weissman, Hollywood 4WRD
Hon. Jesse Zwick, Santa Monica City Council
Assemblymember Rick Chavez Zbur serves as the Democratic Caucus Chair for the California State Assembly and represents the 51st Assembly District, which includes Universal City, Hollywood, Hancock Park, West Hollywood, Beverly Hills, Westwood, West Los Angeles, Santa Monica, and other portions of Los Angeles.
CONTACT:
Vienna Montague, (916) 319-2051, Vienna.Montague@asm.ca.gov