SACRAMENTO, CA –
Governor Gavin Newsom has signed AB 2131 (Valencia), a Latino Caucus Priority Bill, into law. AB 2131 will enhance patient care by expanding accessibility for aspiring Certified Nursing Assistants (CNA).
With the California Department of Public Health declaring a workforce shortage in 34 out of 58 counties, this legislation comes at a critical moment. CNAs are essential, providing hands-on care in hospitals, retirement communities, nursing homes, and assisted living facilities.
AB 2131 mandates that the written and oral portions of the CNA competency exam be offered in Spanish, addressing an urgent need during California's severe CNA shortage. By enabling Spanish-speaking individuals to enter the workforce, we can better meet the diverse linguistic and cultural needs of patients, directly enhancing the quality of care that patients receive.
"As a native Spanish speaker, it was extremely challenging to pass the English language Certified Nurse Assistant test, even though I am an outstanding caregiver and love the work,” said Maria Gonzalez, a CNA at a skilled nursing facility. “I know people who would have been excellent caregivers who gave up because of the English-only testing.”
Arnulfo De La Cruz, President of SEIU Local 2015 and SEIU California Executive Board Member, said: "AB 2131 is a critical step forward in addressing California's severe shortage of direct caregivers. It will expand the number of CNAs, help meet the need for more Spanish-speaking caregivers, and prepare our state to meet the needs of our aging population.”
Assemblymember Valencia added, “AB 2131 received strong bipartisan support and with the Governor’s approval, this moment marks a significant victory for California's diverse communities, ensuring all patients receive the compassionate and competent care they deserve.”
###
Assemblymember Avelino Valencia proudly represents the 68th Assembly district which includes the cities of Anaheim, Orange and Santa Ana. Valencia chairs the Assembly Budget Subcommittee #7 on Accountability and Oversight.