(SACRAMENTO, CA)
– José Luis Solache, Jr. (D-Lynwood) was sworn in today by Assembly Speaker Robert Rivas (D-Salinas) to serve as California's newest Member of the State Assembly. Solache was elected to represent the cities and communities of Bellflower, Huntington Park, Lakewood, Lynwood, Maywood, Paramount, South Gate, and Walnut Park.
"As a son of hard working immigrant parents, I am proud to represent Assembly District 62. I want to acknowledge my mother, Maria Luz Solache Arrieta, who always encouraged me and inspired me to be a public servant," said Assemblymember Solache. "I am excited and ready to continue the work of improving our communities and our great State of California."
Prior to his election to the State Assembly, Solache has served as Mayor, Mayor Pro Tem and Councilmember in the city of Lynwood since 2013, as well as three terms on the Lynwood Unified School District Board of Education. The district educates over 15,000 local students and José served as Board President three times. His election to the school board at the age of 23 made him one of the youngest elected leaders in L.A. County.
Solache's parents immigrated to this country from Leon, Guanajuato and he is proud of his Mexican-American roots. His commitment to public service was inspired by his mother, Maria Luz Solache Arrieta. He always carries her lessons of compassion and justice in his heart and throughout his work.
Solache was born in Bellflower, grew up in Lynwood and attended local public schools. He earned a Bachelor of Arts degree in Liberal Studies from California State University, Dominguez Hills. While pursuing his undergraduate degree, he served two terms as Student Body President and served as statewide Chair of the California State Student Association (CSSA). Solache also completed graduate work at the University of Southern California.
Solache enjoys art, culture, traveling, and exploring diverse cuisines with his partner, family, and friends.
CONTACT:
Israel Landa, Israel.Landa@asm.ca.gov