AB 2917, a bill designed to enhance the state's Gun Violence Restraining Order (GVRO) law by drawing the civil court’s attention to a broader set of risk factors, passed the Legislature and awaits the Governor's signature.
SACRAMENTO, CA —
Assemblymember Rick Chavez Zbur (D-Hollywood) announced today that AB 2917, the Hate-Based Gun Violence Prevention Act, passed both houses of the California Legislature and now moves to the Governor's Desk. AB 2917, sponsored by Everytown for Gun Safety and the San Francisco City Attorney's Office, is a key piece of legislation that guides the civil court to consider threats of violence made against groups protected by hate crime laws and threats of violence to advance political objectives.
"In the decade since GVROs were introduced, they have proven to be one of the most effective tools for preventing gun violence before it occurs," said
Assemblymember Rick Chavez Zbur
. "By promptly and temporarily removing firearms from individuals who pose a risk to themselves or others, GVROs have been instrumental in preventing mass shootings and suicides. AB 2917 strengthens this vital tool by ensuring that courts consider threats of violence motivated by hate or extremist ideologies."
According to the
California Attorney General's 2023 Hate-Crime Report
, hate crimes involving racial, religious, sexual orientation, and gender bias all increased between 2021 and 2022. The alarming rise in violence, particularly against LGBTQ+ communities—especially transgender women—religious minorities, and racial and ethnic minorities, underscores the need for stronger preventive measures.
"With hate-based and politically motivated violence on the rise, California courts must be vigilant in considering these threats when determining whether to restrict access to firearms," Assemblymember Zbur continued. "This bill guides the courts to weigh threats of violence against groups protected by hate crime laws and threats made to advance political objectives. By doing so, we can prevent needless deaths and save innocent lives."
"During the last decade, hate-motivated threats of violence and armed extremism have been on the rise. Now, thanks to the work of our gun sense champions, California will be better positioned to prevent threats from turning into tragedy," said
Sharon Genkin, a gun violence survivor and volunteer with the California chapter of Moms Demands Action
. "We thank Assemblymember Zbur for his commitment to gun safety and urge Governor Newsom to sign this measure swiftly to protect all Californians."
"We know GVROs are one of the strongest tools we have to disarm dangerous individuals and save lives," said
San Francisco City Attorney David Chiu
, whose office launched a GVRO program and is co-sponsoring AB 2917. "The Hate-Based Gun Violence Prevention Act will give public law offices more tools to prevent gun violence and make our communities safer. As troubling data shows that hate-based violence is on the rise, I'm glad this commonsense bill is headed to the Governor's desk."
AB 2917 represents a renewed commitment to honoring gun violence victims and survivors. It ensures that when warning signs are present—such as threats of violence driven by hate or extremist ideologies—California has the tools necessary to prevent tragedies before they occur.
The Governor has until September 30, 2024 to sign the bill.
Assemblymember Rick Chavez Zbur serves as the Democratic Caucus Chair for the California State Assembly and represents the 51st Assembly District, which includes Universal City, Hollywood, Hancock Park, West Hollywood, Beverly Hills, Westwood, West Los Angeles, Santa Monica, and other portions of Los Angeles.
CONTACT:
Vienna Montague, (916) 319-2051, Vienna.Montague@asm.ca.gov