WATSONVILLE, CA
- On Wednesday, California State Assembly Speaker Robert Rivas joined community and state leaders to break ground on a project that will bring significant flood protection to the city of Watsonville, the town of Pajaro and nearby Central Coast communities.
Rivas visited the Pajaro region often after the tragic storms of 2023
, and as Speaker urgently worked with legislative colleagues and Governor Gavin Newsom to secure funding to bring increased protections to the region. At Wednesday’s groundbreaking ceremony, attended by dozens of community members, Rivas thanked local leaders for their commitment and action.
"This is a significant moment for this region,” said Rivas, a Democrat from Salinas whose Assembly District includes most of the Pajaro Valley. “For this community, so many hard-working residents and families in this region, it’s their resiliency, their relentless action that made this possible.”
Representatives from the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers and the California Department of Water Resources, along with Congress members Zoe Lofgren and Jimmy Panetta, State Senator John Laird, and Santa Cruz County Supervisor Zach Friend also spoke at the groundbreaking, which took place near Corralitos Creek in Watsonville, where the first phase of the project will begin.
“By this time next year … the entire project will be either under construction or in design,” said Col. James Handura with the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, who will manage the construction project in partnership with the Pajaro Regional Flood Management Agency and the State of California.
The ceremony follows a
historic pact signed by all parties last November
. The Pajaro River Flood Risk Management Project Partnership Agreement was the result of
Assembly Bill 876, authored by Speaker Rivas and signed into law
by the Governor last year, effectively initiating levee and waterway improvements along the lower Pajaro River and its tributaries as soon as possible.
The agreement allows for the $500 million project to be completed years earlier, and it will increase flood protection from more extreme flood events.
“There is no other project where the state has bought out the local share … so that we could have a fully funded project,” said state Sen. John Laird. “This is a monumental victory, and it’s a tribute to teamwork … to all of you in the community.”
Pajaro’s levee and waterway system underwent extensive damage in March 2023, when devastating storms ravaged the region, causing dangerous flooding and forcing evacuations.
Governor Newsom and Speaker Rivas visited Pajaro
immediately after the disaster and made a commitment to quickly pursue upgrades and deliver community support.
Last summer, the Governor issued an executive order to expedite emergency repairs before future storms, and approved $20 million in state funds to help rebuild the community of Pajaro. Speaker Rivas’ AB 876 continued to expedite the longer-term levee modernization project and ensure the preservation of Central Coast waterways.
On Wednesday, officials thanked local, state and federal leaders for their urgency, and Representatives from Congress praised efforts from all parties, including the Biden administration, for prioritizing the communities of Pajaro and Watsonville.
“The people of this community deserve this. It’s amazing what you can get done when you’re all pulling in the same direction together,” Rep. Zoe Lofgren said.
“It’s about the people. It was and it is and it will continue to be a priority that we keep the pressure at all levels of government to ensure this project gets done,” Rep. Jimmy Panetta said.
Supervisor Friend, who hosted the groundbreaking in his district, showed his appreciation to the community for never giving up. “This has been unquestionably the most important issue I’ve worked on in my 12 years in office,” he said.
What Speaker Robert Rivas Says
“It’s all about the resilient communities of Pajaro and Watsonville. Today, we broke ground on critical levee and waterway upgrades that will increase safety, stability and opportunity for locals. I'm proud to have helped make this happen with so many other federal, state, and local leaders. When we work together, we get big things done!”
Governor Gavin Newsom
“This urgent work underway is critical to protecting vulnerable communities that have faced the threat of devastating flooding for far too long. California is strengthening flood protections in at-risk communities across the state, a key priority as we continue to experience extreme weather. I’m grateful for the partnership of our legislators and federal and local leaders who have worked together to advance this project.”
Rep. Jimmy Panetta
“The Pajaro River Flood Risk Management Project is a prime example of our community and how we get things done on the Central Coast of California. It takes partnership at all levels of government, constant pressure, and an understanding of our responsibility to protect the vulnerable people and the valuable products of the Pajaro Valley. I was proud to participate not just in today’s groundbreaking, but also throughout the entire process of getting this project started, and I look forward to our continued partnership and persistence to get this project completed to provide the necessary protection.”
Rep. Zoe Lofgren
“Families, workers, and business owners in the Watsonville and Pajaro communities need and deserve more flood protections. The groundbreaking for Reach 6 is a big milestone, and I look forward to continuing to work with state and local leaders to get to the finish line for the whole levee upgrade project. This construction is just the beginning, and I will continue to monitor all aspects of the work to ensure we’re doing as much as we can at the federal level to support the project.”
State Sen. John Laird
“This is a historic moment for the people who live and work in the Pajaro Valley. For decades, I worked to get adequate funding to bring levees to a standard that would protect this community. In 2023, just after my legislation was signed to allow this project to move forward, the unimaginable happened, however this resilient community pulled together and is rebuilding. Along with that effort, they will now have adequate flood protections to protect against future catastrophes.”
Santa Cruz County Supervisor Zach Friend
"This groundbreaking is a turning of the page, from decades of fighting for this project to the beginning of a future where the project is now a reality and a safer and more prosperous Pajaro Valley can be realized. While we are not out of the woods yet and know that we still have multiple winters ahead of us during construction, we can see the path that takes us there and it begins now with this first phase in Watsonville.”
Lt. Col. Timothy Shebesta, U.S. Army Corps of Engineers
“Building a safer levee system is of course a fundamental goal for the Corps, and we should all be very proud that this levee system will not just be safer, but also be more resilient in the years to come as we implement Engineering with Nature solutions which harness natural options to help manage flood risk. It is truly an honor to stand here today and celebrate this enormous milestone with all of you – local, state and federal project champions – who have worked tirelessly behind the scenes to move the needle and get us to this historic day. By this time next year, the entire flood risk management project will be either under construction or being designed.”
###
Speaker of the Assembly Robert Rivas represents California’s 29th Assembly District, which includes all of San Benito County and portions of Monterey, Santa Cruz, and Santa Clara Counties. For a full biography of Speaker Rivas, click
here
.