VAL VERDE, CA –
In response to the Chiquita Canyon, LLC letter issued today announcing Chiquita Canyon Landfill will stop active trash disposal, Assemblywoman Pilar Schiavo released the following statement.
“The announcement of Chiquita Canyon Landfill’s closure is a major victory for the residents of Val Verde, Castaic and surrounding Santa Clarita communities, who have endured unacceptable impacts to their health and quality of life. This moment would not have been possible without the decisive action taken by the Los Angeles Regional Water Quality Board, one of the State’s nine Regional Water Boards, who denied the landfill’s application to expand operations. Today the landfill has found no economic viability to continue trash operations.
While the end of incoming trash means that you will no longer smell the odor of new trash being added to the site, there is still much to be done to address the underground 40 acre fire that will likely be burning for many years. Now, we must focus on this ongoing disaster to ensure the landfill operator upholds its contractual obligations and follows state laws to ensure the long-term stability of the landfill in addition to addressing the public health and environmental disaster that remains. The state and local agencies must continue to work together to implement comprehensive mitigation efforts that hold Waste Connections and Chiquita Canyon Landfill responsible and prioritize the health and safety of our residents.
I remain committed to collaborating with local leaders, Los Angeles County officials, and our state and federal agencies to support affected families, ensure accountability, and develop solutions for the challenges our region continues to face. This includes authoring legislation to exempt compensation from state taxes and state assistance eligibility, as well as securing funding to assist with relocation expenses for those impacted by the landfill.
Thank you to everyone who has raised their voices, to the state agencies, whose leadership and enforcement were critical in addressing the landfill’s persistent violations and ultimately making clear that closure was necessary, and to our community stakeholders who have remained steadfast in holding the landfill accountable. Together, we will continue working toward a healthier, safer future for all.”
###
Assemblywoman Pilar Schiavo was elected to the California State Assembly in November of 2022 to represent the 40th Assembly District, representing the Northwest San Fernando Valley and the Santa Clarita Valley. Upon her election, she was appointed as Assistant Majority Whip by the Speaker of the Assembly and now serves as Chair of the Assembly Committee on Military and Veterans Affairs. Prior to her election, Assemblywoman Schiavo was a Nurse Advocate and Small Business Owner who worked in the labor movement for more than 20 years. Throughout her career, Assemblywoman Schiavo helped deliver healthcare, including reproductive healthcare, to more than one million people. In the Northwest San Fernando Valley, she co-founded an organization that helped secure housing for Veterans experiencing homelessness, has delivered more than 50,000 meals to people in need, and increased resources to help keep our communities safe. Assemblywoman Schiavo lives in Chatsworth with her daughter Sofia where they love to hike in the Santa Susana Mountains.