A successful CalFresh pilot project that made healthy foods more affordable had ended in April due to the lack of funding. As a result, CalFresh recipients statewide saw a cut in their CalFresh benefits. Parents, seniors and working families who relied on the program, known as the CalFresh Fruit and Vegetable Electronic Benefits Transfer (EBT) Pilot Project, had less money to put food on their tables.
Now, Assembymember Alex Lee has secured $10 million in the 2024-2025 state budget to revive the pilot project, so that low-income families can continue to access additional CalFresh benefits.
“The CalFresh Fruit and Vegetable EBT Pilot Project has reached tens of thousands of families. It is an effective solution to addressing food insecurity,” said Assemblymember Lee. “As Chair of the Human Services Committee, I’m proud to have secured funding for this important project. Despite the deficit challenge, the state’s budget prioritizes people by protecting funding for social safety net programs like the CalFresh Fruit and Vegetable Pilot.”
The California Department of Social Services (CDSS) launched the CalFresh Fruit and Vegetable Pilot in 2023. For every $1 of CalFresh benefits spent on any fresh fruits and vegetables at a participating retailer, CalFresh recipients got $1 back on their EBT card to spend on any CalFresh-eligible food for up to $60/month. In total, the pilot project provided $10.5 million in rebates to 93,000 CalFresh households. Over 85 grocery stores and several farmers’ markets across the state participated in the CalFresh Fruit and Vegetable Pilot.
The pilot project, which was established by AB 1811 of 2018, has served as a critical source of supplemental benefits for individuals and families. CalFresh recipients already saw their benefits drop as COVID-19 federal aid for extra CalFresh benefits ended last year. As noted by the California Budget & Policy Center, the loss of additional COVID-19 funding meant that families’ monthly CalFresh assistance were
reduced
by at least $95 and up to $258.
According to the California Association of Food Banks,
nearly a quarter
of Californian households experienced food insecurity as of May 2024. Further,
research
has shown that the annual health care costs associated with food insecurity totals over $7 billion annually in California.
As part of Assemblymember Lee’s commitment to addressing food insecurity in California, he also introduced AB 3229 to ensure the CalFresh Fruit and Vegetable Pilot’s long-term sustainability. The bill will accelerate CDSS’s evaluation of the pilot project and its planning process to transition the project into a permanent program.
Advocates and legislators across the state rallied in support of the project and the $10 million of new funding.
"We commend the Legislature and governor for ensuring that the CalFresh Fruit and Vegetable EBT Pilot Program can continue reducing hunger, improving health, and supporting California's agricultural economy in the coming year. In a tough budget environment, this effective and efficient program is exactly the kind of thing that deserves sustained investment," said Eli Zigas, Executive Director of Fullwell, which co-sponsored the effort with Nourish California to secure funding. "We are grateful that the governor, the Legislature's leadership, and the program's legislative champions -- Assemblymember Lee, Senator Wiener, and Senator Dodd -- chose to prioritize this critical safety net program."
“Nourish California extends our deep gratitude to state budget leaders, particularly Assemblymember Alex Lee, for being such a strong champion in addressing food insecurity,” said Jared Call, Director of Policy at Nourish California. “We look forward to working with CDSS and the Legislature to restart this successful program.”
“We created this fresh fruit and vegetable pilot project to ensure everyone, regardless of income, has access to healthy produce,” said Senator Scott Wiener, who is Chair of the Senate Budget Committee and led the effort to create the pilot project. “We worked hard during this bad budget year to protect this program, and I’m thrilled we were able to deliver and keep the program going for Californians.”
“California is a state of great economic resources and we must absolutely provide for our most vulnerable,” said Senator Bill Dodd. “These programs are a testament to our compassion and commitment to helping others. They are essential for lifting those in need. I congratulate the governor and Legislature for their continued support.”
“I can’t overstate how vital this program is to thousands of low-income California families who struggle to put food on their tables, let alone pay other expenses,” said Assemblymember Dr. Joaquin Arambula, who authored legislation that proposed to expand the CalFresh Fruit and Vegetable Pilot. “We know fruits and vegetables are key to proper nutrition, good health, and overall well-being -- especially for children as they grow and develop. No one in our state, which produces so much of the food that feeds the world, should suffer from hunger. I am grateful to Governor Newsom and the legislative leadership for including this CalFresh program in this year’s budget and to Assemblymember Alex Lee for fighting to make it a priority.”
“California has a significant food insecurity problem. In Silicon Valley alone, 1 in 6 people rely on Second Harvest for food assistance. Inflation has made everything more expensive, but the impact on families living on lower incomes is far greater. There is enough food for everyone, but we have to do more to make it accessible,” said Tracy Weatherby, Vice President of Strategy and Advocacy at Second Harvest of Silicon Valley. “The CalFresh Fruit and Vegetable EBT Pilot Project is a simple way for residents who qualify to access fresh, nutritious food at participating local stores. We are pleased that the Legislature approved funding for the project and grateful to Assemblymember Lee for his leadership in making nutritious food more accessible to all of our neighbors in California.”
“San Diego Hunger Coalition applauds our state budget leaders, and San Diego Senators and Assemblymembers, for funding the CalFresh Fruit and Vegetable EBT Pilot Project in this year’s budget,” said San Diego Hunger Coalition’s President and CEO Alondra Alvarado. “With nearly 800,000 San Diegans experiencing nutrition insecurity, now is not the time to pull back and cut programs that work and help families stretch their CalFresh dollars. We look forward to the continued success of this program and to help bring it to more San Diegans.”
“Blue Zones Project Monterey County applauds the allocation of $10 million to restart the highly successful California Fruit and Vegetable EBT Pilot Project. In its first year, this program has proven its effectiveness by helping 93,000 families access the fresh produce they need to support their health, including many in our own Monterey County,” said Genevieve LeBlanc, Senior Food Policy Lead at Blue Zones Project Monterey County.