SACRAMENTO—California students will learn about the impact on California Native Americans during the Spanish Colonization and Gold Rush Eras in California public schools after Gov. Gavin Newsom today signed AB 1821, a measure authored by the first and only California Native American elected to the legislature, Assemblymember James C. Ramos (D-San Bernardino). It was one of seven tribal-related measures Newsom approved today on California Native American Day.
Ramos said, “I am pleased that Gov. Newsom approved AB 1821; it is another step forward in the path toward writing a new chapter in the state’s relationship to California tribes. For far too long California’s First People and their history have been ignored or misrepresented. Classroom instruction about Spanish Colonization and Gold Rush periods fails to include the loss of life, enslavement, starvation, illness and violence inflicted upon California Native Americans.”
Soboba Band of Luiseño Indians Chairman Isaiah Vivanco said, “We thank Assemblymember Ramos for authoring AB 1821 to ensure that a more complete and accurate history of our state is taught. Any teaching of the Spanish colonization and Gold Rush eras should include the impact on California’s Native Americans. During those devastating periods, Native Americans endured great loss of life, enslavement, and other perils. Those truths are often absent from instruction about California’s history and the nation’s westward expansion. Omitting this history erases the truth of Native Americans’ presence on this land and through silence perpetuates the injustices of those eras. That is why AB 1821 is an important step in the telling of our state’s history and its First People.”
State Superintendent of Public Instruction Tony Thurmond stated, “I am proud to have co-sponsored AB 1821 by Assembly Ramos, and to see this important legislation become law. This legislation will help ensure curriculum on California’s Spanish Mission and Gold Rush eras accurately captures the treatment and impact of Native Americans during these significant eras in state history. This initiative supports California’s diverse students to be seen, heard, and understood in their instructional materials, and to foster a deeper appreciation for our Native communities’ history and cultures.”
Chairwoman Lynn Valbuena of the San Manuel Band of Mission Indians stated, “ AB 1821 will create a more relevant and accurate curriculum when students learn about the Spanish colonization and Gold Rush periods in California’s history. We are thankful Governor Newsom has signed this bill into law so that California students can learn the true history and culture of tribes during those periods. ”
Late last year, a poll released by the Institute of Governmental Studies showed strong support to require California schools to incorporate teaching about Native American tribes’ history and culture. An overwhelming 80% of respondents were in support of a requirement such as AB 1821.
AB 1821 is cosponsored by the San Manuel Band of Mission Indians, Soboba Band of Luiseno Indians and State Superintendent of Public Instruction Tony Thurmond. A partial list of other supporters include California Teachers Association, California State PTA, California Tribal Business Alliance, Santa Ynez Band of Chumash Indians and Tule River Tribe.
Other Ramos tribal bills signed included:
AB 81
reinforces California protections for Native American families and the Indian Child Welfare Act
AB 1284
encourages the Natural Resources Agency, and its departments, boards, conservancies, and commissions, to enter into cogovernance and comanagement agreements with federally recognized tribes
AB 1863
requires California Highway Patrol (CHP) to state reasons for denying request for a Feather Alert, a public notification system used when Native Americans are missing and overseen by the CHP
AB 2108
requires county social workers and others to immediately notify parents, guardians, legal counsel and other pertinent adults when a foster child is missing.
AB 2348
revises and strengthens California’s Feather Alert, requiring law enforcement agencies to respond within 24 hours of a request, and also allowing for tribal governments to directly communicate with the State.
AB 2695
requires specified entities reporting criminal record data to the Department of Justice to disaggregate the data based on whether incidents took place in Indian country.
###
Assemblymember James C. Ramos proudly represents the 45
th
Assembly district which includes the Cities of Fontana, Highland, Mentone, Redlands, Rialto and San Bernardino. He is the first and only California Native American serving in the state’s legislature. Ramos chairs the Assembly Budget Subcommittee #6 on Public Safety.