SACRAMENTO, CA —
Assembly Democratic Caucus Chair Rick Chavez Zbur (D-Hollywood) has announced that two bills to uplift and protect the LGBTQ+ Community have passed their first Assembly policy committees. On Tuesday, members of the Assembly Health Committee overwhelmingly voted to advance AB 2258 – the
Enhanced Consumer Protections for Preventive Care
bill – passing the bill with no "No" votes, and members of the Assembly Business and Professions Committee by a wide margin voted to advance AB 2442 – the
Increasing Access to Gender Affirming Care
bill. These bills uplift and protect the health of LGBTQ+ and traditionally underserved communities throughout California and beyond.
"Even here in California, too many LGBTQ+ people face discrimination and experience alarming disparities in measures of health and well-being," said
Assemblymember Rick Chavez Zbur
. "People should not have to choose between preventing catastrophic health crises and putting food on the table. Likewise, people should not have to leave their home states in order to obtain life-saving comprehensive and inclusive health care – but California will never hesitate to pick up the mantle of serving as a refuge for LGBTQ+ people as legislatures undermine civil rights elsewhere. As states across the country target transgender people and LGBTQ+ families, we must reinforce California as a beacon of hope where all families can get the health care and support they need.I am proud to see AB 2258 and AB 2442 pass out of their respective committees.
AB 2258: Enhanced Consumer Protections for Preventive Care
Every Californian deserves access to preventive health care that is comprehensive, inclusive, and affordable. A recent study found that as little as $10 in cost sharing for HIV prevention medication (PrEP) doubled the rate at which patients abandon their prescriptions, leading to a higher incidence of HIV infection in those patients. Federal guidance under the Affordable Care Act (ACA) requires health insurers and health plans to cover both recommended preventive care and health care that is integral to providing recommended preventive care ("integral services") without out-of-pocket costs. AB 2258 would codify this federal guidance into California law. These services include, but are not limited to; anesthesia and polyp removal during a colonoscopy; placement, management, and removal of long-acting reversible contraceptives; and ancillary and support services for PrEP, including HIV and other STI screening.
Sponsors: California Insurance Commissioner Ricardo Lara, APLA Health, San Francisco AIDS Foundation, Los Angeles LGBT Center, Equality California
AB 2442: Increasing Access to Gender-Affirming Care
In 2023, 185 bills were passed nationwide to limit or eliminate access to gender-affirming health care. This pervasive wave of anti-LGBTQ+ legislation has particularly harmed transgender youth, as highlighted by the Williams Institute's estimate that approximately 156,500 transgender youth live in 32 states where access to gender-affirming care has been restricted. AB 2442 ensures that licensure applications for providers of gender-affirming care are prioritized to ensure a robust network of providers in the state is able to meet the needs of out-of-state patients. By championing this initiative, California can continue to serve as a beacon of inclusivity and reinforce access to quality gender-affirming care.
Sponsors: Planned Parenthood Affiliates of California, Equality California
AB 2258 and AB 2442 now advance to the Assembly Appropriations Committee, where they will be heard in the coming weeks.
Assemblymember Rick Chavez Zbur serves as the Democratic Caucus Chair for the California State Assembly and represents the 51st Assembly District, which includes Universal City, Hollywood, Hancock Park, West Hollywood, Beverly Hills, Westwood, West Los Angeles, Santa Monica, and other portions of Los Angeles.
CONTACT:
Vienna Montague, (916) 319-2051, Vienna.Montague@asm.ca.gov