SACRAMENTO, CA
– Renel Brooks-Moon, former Public Announcer (PA) for the San Francisco Giants has been named 2024 Woman of the Year for California Assembly District 17 by Assemblymember Matt Haney. Nominated for her decades of excellence in the field of broadcast journalism and communications, Brooks-Moon is best known for her work as the voice of the San Francisco Giants. She has spent the last 24 years as the public address announcer breaking barriers for women of color in Major League Baseball (MLB).
Renel Brooks-Moon, a native Californian and trailblazer, was born on September 22, 1948 in Oakland, CA. She is a former radio personality and Emmy-winning television host. In 2000, Brooks-Moon became the first voice of the San Francisco Giants' new stadium, Pacific Bell Park, which has since been renamed to SBC Park, AT&T Park, and currently, Oracle Park during her 24-year tenure.
In those 24 years Brooks-Moon broke barriers as the first African-American woman to serve as a PA in MLB history, the first woman to perform the role of PA for a World Series, and the first woman to PA a championship game in any professional sport. Brooks-Moon is not just the iconic voice of the Giants, but an inspirational voice to the San Francisco Bay Area, women, and in particular women of color everywhere.
Oracle Park resides in CA Assembly District 17 represented by Assemblymember Matt Haney, who as a lifelong Giants fan, is nominating Brooks-Moon. “She wasn’t just another announcer, Renel was, and is, an icon in the Bay Area. You hear her voice and it’s so familiar, you can’t help but associate her identity with the Giants and the Bay Area as a whole” said Haney. “I am proud to honor her not only for her trailblazing career as an announcer, but also for using her platform to support charities and community advocacy. She's been a leader and an inspiration in everything she's done. Renel opened the door for so many women and for people of color. The broadcasting industry will never be the same.”
Considering Brooks-Moon’s status as a beloved figure in the Bay Area and one of the few non-player Black employees visible to the public, her departure from the team comes as a shock and disappointment to many. Oracle Park’s PA booth will be named after her to honor her legacy and years of service.
The Woman of the Year award, presented annually by the California State Legislature, is a prestigious recognition of the exceptional contributions made by women to their communities and the state. This award celebrates the remarkable achievements of outstanding women who have dedicated their lives to improving the lives of others through their work and service. Recipients of this award serve as role models for future generations and inspire others to make a positive impact in their communities.
Ms. Renel Brooks-Moon will receive the award at a special event organized by Assemblymember Haney’s Office in early April. Details to follow.
###