SACRAMENTO, CA —
Today, Assemblymember Jesse Gabriel (D - Encino)
honored the Boys & Girls Club of the West Valley (BGCWV) as his 2024 California Nonprofit of the Year for Assembly District 46. Assemblymember Gabriel was accompanied by
Geovanny Ragsdale
, CEO of BGCWV, and
Donald Weissman
, Chairman of BGCWV, for a luncheon in the State’s Capitol, where they received the honor and recognition.
BGCWV was founded in 1992 with a mission to provide safe, affordable, educational, and productive activities for at-risk youth during non-school hours. Their work is dedicated to building the community’s social and economic fabric by ensuring the academic and career success of the students they serve.
“The Boys and Girls Club of the West Valley has been an incredible resource for children and families across the San Fernando Valley,”
said Assemblymember Jesse Gabriel (D-Encino)
. “I’m so grateful for their dedication to serving young people with thoughtful and creative programming and I’m proud to recognize them as our 2024 Non-profit of the Year.”
BGCWV has evolved from a solely on-campus organization to a deeply rooted community presence, with a permanent 10,000-square-foot facility established in Canoga Park in 2004. Today, young people across the Valley have the opportunity to engage in positive social activities with peers, achieve academic success through tutoring and enrichment programs, and learn the benefits of healthy eating and lifestyles through sports, fitness, and wellness programs.
“The work we do day in and day out with youth in UTK through 12th grade is impactful for our community. Youth today are facing new challenges of mental and emotional health like we’ve never seen before,” said
Geovanny Ragsdale, CEO of Boys and Girls Club of the West Valley.
“They are struggling to fully understand their identity, values, and place in the world. BGCWV is grateful to serve close to 3,000 unique youth with caring mentors, advisors, and coaches who help them achieve academic success, explore community engagement, and learn how to develop a healthy lifestyle. I take this responsibility to heart as we aim to ensure our members graduate on time Future Ready, as contributors to society.”
###
Jesse Gabriel proudly represents the San Fernando Valley in the California State Legislature