SACRAMENTO, CA —
State legislators and a broad coalition of supporters gathered Tuesday to call for a $1 billion investment in our seaports as part of the California Climate Resiliency Bond — AB 1567 — being considered by the California State Legislature. This funding serves as a down payment for the assembly, construction, and transportation of wind turbines needed to meet the California Energy Commission's Offshore Wind Strategic Plan. Ensuring that California invests in port infrastructure improvements to support planned offshore wind development is crucial to meeting our climate change, grid reliability, and workforce development goals.
"Investing in offshore wind now is the only way we can achieve California's ambitious climate goals," said
Assemblymember Rick Chavez Zbur (D-Hollywood)
. "This is not just an avenue to clean energy. It is an environmental justice proposal that will bring hundreds of thousands of high-wage, high-skilled union jobs to California, in addition to meeting our climate goals. If we do not find the funding to improve our port infrastructure for offshore wind, we will not meet our climate goals."
"This is such an important issue for the state and for the North Coast community I represent," said
Assemblymember Jim Wood (D-Healdsburg)
. "Not only will these projects help California meet its essential climate goals, but it will tap into the strengths of the local communities and bring benefits to all of its residents. We need to make these investments now and stay committed throughout every step in order to reach our end goal."
"Offshore wind is the unicorn my district needs," said
Assemblymember Josh Lowenthal (D-Long Beach)
. "By making an investment in it—we are making an investment in good union jobs, clean air and further reduces our dependence on fossil fuels. With offshore wind, we all win."
"I am thrilled to be invited to this press conference today to help bring awareness to the importance of offshore wind alongside my colleagues and stakeholders," said
Assemblymember Mike Gipson (D-Carson)
. "I would like to thank Assemblymembers Zbur, Wood, and Lowenthal for the creation of this bill and the possibility of bringing this bond to the voters. As the chair of the Select Committee on Ports and Goods Movement, I recently visited the Port of Humboldt, where we celebrated nearly half a billion dollars in funding to create the largest offshore wind project on the west coast. We are seeing a huge potential around projects like these, and AB 2208 will help California propel itself as a national leader in renewable energy sources. I look forward to seeing how every port in California can work together to make sure these projects are finished in a quick and efficient manner to meet our statewide emission goals."
"It can be hard to make long-term investments, because none of us will be here when these projects are built and the ribbon is cut," said
Assemblywoman Petrie-Norris (D-Irvine), Chair of the Assembly Committee on Utilities & Energy
. "But when I think about the investments we are making this year, and the role they will play in reaching our climate goals, I am reminded of a Greek proverb: 'A society grows great when old men – and women – plant trees in whose shade they will never sit.' That is what these investments are really about."
"My message is simple," said
Dan Jacobson, Senior Advisor for Environment California
. "We need a climate bond and it needs to include money for ports working on offshore wind. Offshore wind is our best ally in the struggle against climate change. But we can't tap into offshore wind until we upgrade our ports. Today for a few hours we generated 100% of our energy from clean energy. IF we want to have clean energy every day—we need offshore wind."
"California's ports will play a critical role in helping meet our state's ambitious offshore wind goals," said
Martha Miller, Executive Director of the California Association of Port Authorities
. "Offshore wind will create thousands of new jobs, expand economic opportunities in our local communities, and generate reliable sources of energy for our future."
"Acting early is the key to reaching California's renewable energy goals for 2045 and beyond, and doing our share to avert climate change," said
Mario Cordero, Port of Long Beach CEO
. "Funding is needed now to start planning for projects like the proposed Pier Wind in Long Beach, that will help make offshore wind farms a reality, and tap into a clean, renewable source of energy."
"California is making good progress on its course and commitment to be a global leader on floating offshore wind," said
Adam Stern, Executive Director of Offshore Wind California
, a trade group of offshore wind developers and technology firms. "Legislators and policymakers are stepping up with the AB 525 Strategic Plan to responsibly deploy this important renewable energy resource at scale, which will create new jobs and provide clean, reliable power to all Californians. If the Golden State wants to go big on offshore wind, we must make the necessary investments to upgrade our ports to assemble and deploy these tall floating turbines. Including $1 billion for ports in a climate bond is a critical next step to making California offshore wind a reality."
Assemblymember Rick Chavez Zbur serves as the Democratic Caucus Chair for the California State Assembly and represents the 51st Assembly District, including Hollywood, West Hollywood, Beverly Hills, Westwood, Santa Monica, and portions of Los Angeles.
CONTACT:
Vienna Montague, (916) 319-2051, Vienna.Montague@asm.ca.gov