(Sacramento) The State Legislature approved higher education legislation authored by Assemblymember David Alvarez (D-San Diego) with bipartisan support. These bills reflect a commitment by Assemblymember Alvarez to making higher education more accessible and equitable for all students, addressing various barriers that have traditionally limited opportunities for many individuals.
Assembly Bill 2586
, the Opportunity for All Act, would provide equal access to employment opportunities for all students, regardless of their immigration status, at the University of California (UC), California State University (CSU), and California Community Colleges (CCC) campuses.
AB 2586 will address the inequities faced by undocumented students in completing their degrees and supporting themselves financially while completing their education. This legislation ensures that all students, regardless of their immigration status, can contribute to and benefit from the state's rich educational and employment ecosystem, bolstering California's position as a leader in diversity, innovation, and opportunity.
“America has always promised that if you work hard, you will have the opportunity to succeed,” said Assemblymember David Alvarez. “The federal government has failed Dreamers and failed on immigration reform. These students have fulfilled the expectation we have of all students yet continue to struggle financially with no ability to seek employment. These students are ready to work at our colleges and universities and this bill will provide the opportunity they have been seeking. I am proud that the Legislature supported this measure, and now I hope that the Governor will make the right choice because undocumented students deserve these opportunities.”
Assembly Bill 2633
allows the California State University (CSU) to award joint undergraduate, graduate, and doctoral degrees in partnership with international institutions.
“The district I represent shares a border with Mexico, therefore, providing greater access to higher education for our binational residents is important for our region’s success,” said Assemblymember Alvarez. “This bill would strengthen our cross-border partnerships by providing a new opportunity for our California State University students to cultivate global perspectives through pursuing a bachelors, masters or doctoral degrees in Mexico or anywhere else in the world.”
These bills are at Governor Gavin Newsom's desk for his consideration.