SACRAMENTO, CA –
Today, Assembly Bill (AB) 823 by
Assemblymember Tasha Boerner
(
D
-
Encinitas
)
passed the Senate Environmental Quality Committee with 7-0 votes. AB 823 would ban the sale of non-rinse-off personal care products and cleaning products containing plastic microbeads by January 1, 2029, and prohibit the sale of personal care products containing plastic glitter by January 1, 2030.
“California is taking a big step by phasing out plastic microbeads from the products we use every day,” stated
Assemblymember Tasha Boerner
. “With AB 823, we’re taking meaningful action to protect Californians by phasing out harmful microplastics in everyday products. I’m proud to work alongside passionate environmental leaders to push this bill forward. A cleaner, healthier, microplastic-free future is within reach—and we’re not backing down.”
"AB 823 is a win for public health, the environment, consumers, and businesses alike," said
Alison Waliszewski
,
Director of Regional Policy and Program Development at 5 Gyres Institute
. "By closing loopholes in California's microbead ban, this bill helps keep harmful plastic microbeads out of our waterways and bodies, supports a healthier environment, and ensures a level playing field for businesses transitioning to safer alternatives. It's a smart, forward-looking policy that benefits all Californians."
“The presence of microplastics in drinking water is of growing concern in California because of the potential health impacts they bring and the excessive costs of water testing and cleanup. Clearly, the continued flow of plastics into our water supplies will place a further economic burden on ratepayers. It’s common sense to stop putting them in products so we don’t have to take them out. That’s why Clean Water Action is proud to support Assemblymember Boerner’s bill,” stated
Andria Ventura
,
Legislative and Policy Director of Clean Water Action
.
"Microplastics pose a growing public health threat. They are found throughout our bodies and are linked to serious conditions including cancer, dementia, and reproductive issues,” said
Nancy Buermeyer
,
Director of Program and Policy for Breast Cancer Prevention Partners
. “AB 823 is a critical step in reducing harmful exposures by eliminating toxic plastic microbeads from everyday products. We thank Assemblywoman Boerner for her leadership and urge lawmakers to support this vital legislation."
“AB 823 is California’s chance to turn off the tap on an easily preventable form of microplastic pollution. Preventing toxic microplastics in the products we use everyday shouldn’t be a controversial issue, especially when there are alternatives already embraced by the industry,” said
Krystal Raynes
,
Legislative Associate at Californians Against Waste
. “We are excited to see the bill pass through Senate Environmental Quality Committee, and thank Chair Catherine Blakespear for her continued commitment to move us to a plastic free future.”
Microplastics have been detected in human lungs, blood, placentas, and brain tissue, prompting growing concern among scientists and public health experts. Emerging studies suggest that exposure to microplastics may be associated with chronic health conditions, including the potential to disrupt cellular function and contribute to abnormal tissue growth. Preliminary findings have indicated possible links to cancers in the lungs, blood, breasts, prostate, and ovaries.
California banned plastic microbeads in rinse-off personal care products in 2015; however, the law excluded leave-on personal care products and cleaning products.
AB 823 is sponsored by 5 Gyres Institute, Breast Cancer Prevention Partners, Californians Against Waste, and Clean Water Action. If signed by the Governor, AB 823 would be the first state to ban plastic microbeads in leave-on cosmetics, cleaning products, and plastic glitter in personal care products.
###
Assemblymember Tasha Boerner represents the 77th District, which encompasses Carlsbad, Encinitas, Solana Beach, Del Mar, Coronado, and the coastal communities of La Jolla south to Downtown San Diego. You can learn more about Assemblymember Boerner at
a77.asmdc.org
,
Facebook
,
Instagram
, or
Twitter/X
.