SACRAMENTO, CA
– Today, Assemblywoman Pilar Schiavo (D-Los Angeles) led a press conference at the State Capitol urging the federal government to protect funding for Social Security, Medicare, and Medi-Cal as part of Assembly Joint Resolution 3 (AJR 3). The resolution calls on the federal government to reject proposed cuts to Medi-Cal and prevent any future reductions to Medicare or Social Security, which would have devastating consequences for patients, families, and service providers across California.
Joined by Assemblymember Dr. Jasmeet Bains (D-Delano), healthcare advocates, service providers, and veterans’ representatives, Assemblywoman Pilar Schiavo emphasized the urgent need for federal action to prevent cuts and restrictions that could harm millions of families.
"No one should have to worry about losing access to healthcare, especially our seniors, veterans, and working families who have paid into these programs and rely on them,” said Assemblywoman Pilar Schiavo. “We’re standing together to send a clear message: protect Social Security, Medicare, and Medi-Cal, because people’s lives depend on it."
Speakers shared firsthand accounts of how federal healthcare policies impact their lives, their patients, and their communities, underscoring the need for stronger protections and continued investment in these programs.
"As a Community Health Center, Northeast Valley Health Corporation serves as a lifeline for tens of thousands of Californians who rely on Medi-Cal for essential healthcare services," said Kimberly Wyard, CEO of Northeast Valley Health Corporation. "Proposed cuts to Medi-Cal would devastate our ability to provide primary and preventive care, impacting the most vulnerable in our communities—seniors, children, working families, and individuals with chronic conditions. These cuts wouldn’t just hurt patients; they would strain emergency rooms, increase long-term healthcare costs, and destabilize the very safety net our communities depend on. We applaud Assemblywoman Schiavo’s leadership in advocating for the protection of these critical programs, and we urge continued investment to ensure all Californians have access to the care they need."
As AJR 3 moves forward, Assemblywoman Pilar Schiavo and advocates will continue working with federal representatives to push for policies that protect and expand access to healthcare for California families. You can watch today's press release in its entirety
here
.
###
Assemblywoman Pilar Schiavo was elected to the California State Assembly in November of 2022 and re-elected in 2024 to represent the 40th Assembly District, representing the Northwest San Fernando Valley, Val Verde, Castaic and the Santa Clarita Valley. Upon her election, she was appointed as Assistant Majority Whip by the Speaker of the Assembly and now serves as Chair of the Assembly Committee on Military and Veterans Affairs. During her first term she brought back a record $93 million district investment in school and community safety, seniors meal programs, veteran housing, domestic violence services and creating local jobs. Prior to her election, Assemblywoman Schiavo was a Nurse Advocate and Small Business Owner who worked in the labor movement for more than 20 years. Throughout her career, Assemblywoman Schiavo helped deliver healthcare, including reproductive healthcare, to more than one million people. In the Northwest San Fernando Valley, she co-founded an organization that helped secure housing for Veterans experiencing homelessness, has delivered more than 50,000 meals to people in need, and increased resources to help keep our communities safe. Assemblywoman Schiavo lives in Chatsworth with her creative kid where they love to hike in the Santa Susana Mountains.