FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE:
June 2, 2025
CONTACT:
Tom Steel, Tom.Steel@asm.ca.gov, (530) 713-7783
Assemblymember Harabedian’s Bill to Shorten Timeline to Access Life-Saving Healthcare Advances to Senate
(Sacramento, CA) — Assemblymember Harabedian (D-Pasadena)
passed AB 512 off the Assembly Floor today to ensure patients receive timely health care from health plans. The bill shortens health treatment authorization decisions by health plans from 72 hours to 24 hours for urgent requests and from five business days to 48 hours for standard requests so patients get the healthcare their doctors prescribe without harmful delays.
“Today, we take a critical step forward in removing unnecessary barriers to healthcare. As my constituents continue to grapple with the consequences of the Eaton Fire, access
to timely care remains urgent and essential. I’m grateful to my colleagues in the Assembly for their support on this bill and their shared commitment to putting patients
and Californians first,” said
Assemblymember John Harabedian (D–Pasadena).
This bill addresses delays in medical care caused by prior authorization requirements, which force physicians to wait for insurer approval before moving forward with treatment, even though the physician already determined that the treatment is necessary. These wait times have contributed to negative health outcomes and increased emotional and financial strain for patients. Prior authorization delays are especially detrimental to patients’ health outcomes during urgent crises like natural disasters or other emergencies.
AB 512 closes this gap by setting clearer, timely standards, ensuring decisions are made promptly and that patient care can move forward without administrative constraints.
AB 512 will move to Senate policy committees to be considered in the summer.
#####
Assemblymember John Harabedian represents the 41st District composed of the cities of La Cañada Flintridge, Pasadena, Altadena, Sierra Madre, Monrovia, Bradbury, San Dimas, La Verne, Claremont, Upland, Rancho Cucamonga, Oak Hills, Piñon Hills and Phelan.