Today, the North Bay Legislative Delegation, including Senate President pro Tempore Mike McGuire (D-North Coast), Senator Christopher Cabaldon (D-Yolo), Assembly Majority Leader Cecilia Aguiar-Curry (D-Winters), Assemblymember Chris Rogers (D-Santa Rosa) and Assemblymember Connolly (D-San Rafael), helped pass a funding bill allocating $185 million to advance wildfire mitigation projects across the Golden State.
The wildfire funding will directly support State Conservancies vegetation management and fuel treatment programs across California. This funding, which was approved by the Legislature today, includes a major investment of $33.5 million for the State Coastal Conservancy which has funded dozens upon dozens of wildfire mitigation projects throughout the North Coast region over the past several years.
In addition, the delegation has partnered with the Karuk Tribe to secure $10 million in state funding to build a regional Fire Training Center in northeastern Humboldt County.
The Karuk Fire Training Center will be a first-of-its-kind facility that provides cultural and prescribed fire training, wildfire risk reduction, climate resilience, and emergency response training. The state investment builds on a prior grant from the State, which awarded $1.2 million to the Tribe for the design and engineering of the Center.
“This early season investment will make communities more wildfire safe in every corner of California, including right here at home on the North Coast. Dozens of wildfire mitigation projects will now be funded across the region thanks to these dollars getting out quickly from the State,” said Pro Tem McGuire. “The Karuk Fire Training Center will be a critical hub for prescribed fire training—a key to hardening our communities and forests to fire—and bring much-needed infrastructure to a fire-vulnerable region of the Golden State.”
The $185 million is part of the state’s multi-pronged commitment to investing in expanding firefighting resources across the State and investing in making communities more wildfire safe through critical mitigation work.
The funding will be disbursed to six land conservancies across the state, including:
$33.5 million to State Coastal Conservancy (represents the North Bay & North Coast)
$33.5 million to San Gabriel and Lower Los Angeles Rivers and Mountains Conservancy
$33.5 million to Santa Monica Mountains Conservancy
$25.5 million to Tahoe Conservancy
$25.5 million to San Diego River Conservancy
$33.5 million to Sierra Nevada Conservancy
“Building wildfire resiliency is an urgent need statewide and in my Senate District 3, which includes important winegrowing regions that face rising danger,” Senator Cabaldon said. “I’m happy to see the state providing more funding, especially as the federal government pulls back.”
“I represent many communities that have experienced the devastating and very real impacts of wildfires. Years later they are still recovering from the loss and rebuilding their lives. I know firsthand that investing in wildfire prevention and mitigation for our communities will save other families from the pain they struggle with every day," said Assembly Majority Leader Cecilia Aguiar-Curry. “This $185 million in funding for our state’s conservancies is a powerful step toward protecting peoples' lives and property across California. I’m proud to stand with my colleagues to deliver these resources now—before our next fire season begins.”
“There is no denying that wildfires are, and will continue to be, a major challenge for our state—which is why we are investing in real solutions,” said Assemblymember Rogers. “We secured funding for the Karuk Tribe’s new fire resiliency center so they have a space to share their internationally-recognized expertise on wildfire management. We also invested in wildfire mitigation and prevention programs that will improve local fire prevention capacity, as well as forest health and resilience.”
“I am thrilled to help allocate the first round of investments of the Climate Bond to wildfire prevention and forest resiliency projects with my colleagues,” said Assemblymember Connolly. “This funding ensures that California’s work to prevent wildfires, keep our communities safe, and improve the health of our forests endures, regardless of the economic chaos created by the Federal Government.”
“We are grateful to the Legislature for allocating $10 million towards creation of the Karuk Fire Resiliency Center,” said Karuk Chairman Russell Attebery. “The Center will provide the infrastructure to train beneficial fire practitioners to help restore balance with fire. We have much to share about fire, and appreciate the partnership with the State.”