SACRAMENTO—Assembly lawmakers today overwhelmingly approved a bill to grant military retirees and their dependents up to $20,000 as a state tax exemption. Assemblymember James C. Ramos (D-San Bernardino) introduced the bill, AB 53, earlier this year.
Ramos said, “I am heartened that this bill is moving forward. It is intended to acknowledge the many sacrifices of our military retirees and their families and serve as an incentive to keep them in California. They frequently start second careers and have needed job skills to fuel the state economy.” Ramos added, “Legislative support has been bipartisan and the governor has marked funding for this effort in the state budget. Now, we need to continue pressing for passage in the state Senate.”
California is the only state that does not offer any tax exemption on military pensions to its 141,000 military retirees. The San Diego Military Advisory Council reports that if a tax exemption were in place, economic gains for the state would include12,600 more jobs, $1.27 billion added to the GSP and $2 billion added to total business sales.
AB 53 is jointly sponsored by the American Legion-Department of California, the Marine Corps League-Department of California, the California Association of County Veteran Service Officers, California Military Officers Association of America, the Enlisted Association of the California National Guard of the United States and the California State Commanders Veterans Council.
A partial list of supporters includes Vietnam Veterans of America, California, Women Veterans Alliance, San Diego Regional Chamber of Commerce, California State Commanders Veterans Council, the California State Treasurer, California State Board of Equalization and California State Retirees.
###
Assemblymember James C. Ramos proudly represents the 45
th
Assembly district that includes the Cities of Fontana, Highland, Mentone, Redlands, Rialto and San Bernardino. He is the first and only California Native American serving in the state’s legislature. Ramos chairs the Assembly Budget Subcommittee #6 on Public Safety.