SACRAMENTO, CA – Today, Assemblymember Damon Connolly (D-San Rafael) introduced AB 419, which requires schools to post the Immigration-Enforcement Actions at California Schools Guide for Students and Families from the Attorney General in the administrative building and on the local education agency’s website.
“Every child in California deserves to pursue a public education without fear,” said Assemblymember Connolly. “This legislation will ensure that immigrant students and families know what their rights are, what information is required for school enrollment, and takes steps to protect student information.”
In 2017, the State Legislature passed the California Values Act (Act), or
SB 54
, which prohibits law enforcement agencies and school police from engaging in immigration enforcement, except in narrow circumstances like the event of a serious crime. The Act also ensures that California schools, health facilities, libraries, and courthouses are safe and accessible to all California residents, regardless of immigration status. Additionally, schools do not need to collect information about a student’s citizenship or immigration status for enrollment. Since 2011, ICE has operated under a policy that immigration agents should not arrest or conduct other enforcement actions near “sensitive locations,” including schools, hospitals, and places of worship. However, in January the Department of Homeland Security issued a
directive
on enforcement actions, rescinding these protections and allowing officers to conduct enforcement operations in or near protected areas.
AB 419 requires schools to post the Immigration-Enforcement Actions at California Schools Guide for Students and Families from the Attorney General, also known as “Know Your Educational Rights,” in both English and Spanish in the administrative building and on the internet website of the local education agency. All children have a right to a free public education, regardless of their immigration status. This legislation is a step to give students and families access to specified information related to immigration enforcement, greater awareness of educational rights, and resources to prepare for emergency situations.
###
Assemblymember Connolly represents the entirety of Marin County and Southern Sonoma County