SACRAMENTO—
California State Assembly Speaker Robert Rivas hosted a delegation of Mayors, Councilmembers, and County Supervisors from Monterey, Santa Cruz, San Benito, and Santa Clara Counties for a full day of state legislative activities in Sacramento. During the visit to the State Capitol yesterday, district leaders heard remarks from Speaker Rivas and had the opportunity to meet with key legislative policy committee chairs and staff.
"I remember when I first came to Sacramento, how isolating it felt. My colleagues didn't know much about the Central Coast or the diverse communities that we all represent. The staff didn't know much about the region and, as a result, didn't understand the unique issues that mattered most to the people we represent,"
said Speaker Robert Rivas
. "That's why it was so important for me and my team to bring together the leaders from my district for a full day of engagement and learning, because their voices matter."
Speaker Robert Rivas pictured with district elected officials on the Assembly Floor in Sacramento
Speaker Rivas was a San Benito County Supervisor for eight years before he was elected to the State Assembly. A lifelong resident of San Benito County, Rivas has always prioritized ensuring that local leaders stay connected to state legislative issues in Sacramento, including by providing one-on-one updates throughout the district. In the last few months, Rivas has participated in multiple local legislative workshops and meetings with local jurisdictions to better understand their priorities and issues.
"It is an amazing opportunity to come to Sacramento because normally at the local level, we only get to interact with our direct representative, but to hear from other representatives who are in key chair positions on issues that matter most for our constituents is something we never had before," said
Mike LeBarre, Mayor of King City
.
The State Legislative Issues Day was the first of its kind launched by Speaker Rivas, and an opportunity to provide more extensive updates to local elected leaders, while also continuing to build and foster strong relationships between the district and the State Capitol.
In a
Facebook post
, former state Assemblymember and
Monterey County Supervisor Luis Alejo
said, "I really enjoyed getting to know other local elected officials better from our region and getting to see many former colleagues and Capitol staff I had not seen in many years. Thank you to Speaker Rivas for a great day back at the Capitol."
Speaker Robert Rivas welcomes elected officials from his home district.
The delegation received updates directly from California State Assemblymembers and Committee Chairs on Transportation, Housing, Judiciary, Public Safety and Budget including Dawn Addis (D-Morro Bay), Ash Kalra (D-San Jose), Lori Wilson (D-Suisun City), Matt Haney (D-San Francisco), Nick Schultz (D-Burbank) and Jesse Gabriel (D-Encino). The delegation sat in on panel discussions and heard from California State Senators Dave Cortese (D-Los Gatos) and John Laird (D-Santa Cruz). The Speaker's expert policy unit was on hand to answer questions and share information on the Speaker's legislative priorities.
Assemblymember Dawn Addis (D-Morro Bay) speaks to District 29 elected officials.
Senator John Laird (D-Santa Cruz) speaks to District 29 elected officials.
"I came to Sacramento to encourage both parties to work together. This isn't about politics. It is about a serious need. We are hearing from people who are making $100,000, maybe $200,000 a year, and they still can't afford a house. Imagine that in the Salinas Valley where people are working in the fields? Hardworking people. Right now, we have people who are going to work in the morning and children who are going to school, and they live in their car or they are renting half a garage. That is their reality," said
Tony Barrera, Salinas City Councilmember
. "I am here so we can all work together to resolve the most important issues."
Salinas City Councilmember Tony Barrera hears remarks from Speaker Robert Rivas.
"My hope is to continue to be an advocate for our community and help them get educated on the policies about housing and transportation, and that is why I am here. I want to be a voice and advocate for my community," said
Soledad City Councilmember Evarista Banuelos
. "I plan to go back to my community and share what I learned here at the State Capitol," she added.
For
television news outlets
who would like to broadcast this story, the following link is a
media feed
with
soundbites and b-roll
in
English and Spanish
:
Speaker Rivas: AD 29 State Legislative Issues Day on Vimeo
.
For
radio news outlets
who would like to air this story, the following links are soundbites of the State Legislative Issues Day in
English and Spanish
:
Welcome remarks from Speaker Robert Rivas. 4:39
https://asmdc.org/sites/caucus.asmdc.org/files/audio/RRivasLegIssuesDayRemarks.mp3
Mike LeBarre, Mayor of King City (two cuts) :57
https://asmdc.org/sites/caucus.asmdc.org/files/audio/RRivasLegIssuesDayMikeLeBarre.mp3
Wendy Root Askew, Monterey County Board of Supervisors (two cuts) 1:40
https://asmdc.org/sites/caucus.asmdc.org/files/audio/RRivasLegIssuesDayWendyRoot.mp3
Tony Barrera, Salinas City Council Member (English) :49
https://asmdc.org/sites/caucus.asmdc.org/files/audio/RRivasLegIssuesDayTonyBarreraEnglish.mp3
Tony Barrera, Salinas City Council Member (two cuts - Spanish) 1:01
https://asmdc.org/sites/caucus.asmdc.org/files/audio/RRivasLegIssuesDayTonyBarreraSpanish.mp3
Evarista Banuelos, Soledad City Councilmember (two cuts - English) :44
https://asmdc.org/sites/caucus.asmdc.org/files/audio/RRivasLegIssuesDayEvaristaBanuelosEnglish.mp3
Evarista Banuelos, Soledad City Councilmember (two cuts - Spanish) :40
https://asmdc.org/sites/caucus.asmdc.org/files/audio/RRivasLegIssuesDayEvaristaBanuelosSpanish.mp3
###
For additional information, please contact:
Speaker Robert Rivas Press Secretary,
Cynthia.Moreno@asm.ca.gov
.
Speaker of the Assembly Robert Rivas represents California's 29th Assembly District, which includes all of San Benito County and portions of Monterey, Santa Cruz, and Santa Clara Counties. For a full biography of Speaker Rivas, click
here
.