SAN JOSE, CA
— Asian Americans for Community Involvement (AACI) announced honoring Assemblymember Patrick Ahrens (D-Silicon Valley) with their Gordon N. Chan Leadership Award at their newly launched
Back-to-School Summer Health Fair
.
The Health Fair, which is open to the general public, is
Saturday, August 2, 2025, from 9 A.M. to 1 P.M.
, at the AACI Community Health Center located at: 2400 Moorpark Ave., San Jose, CA 95128. A speaking program is scheduled to begin at 10:15 A.M. and Assemblymember Ahrens is scheduled to be presented the Leadership Award during this program. For more information about the event, press should contact AACI Director of Development Sarah Guertin at (408) 975-2071 or
Sarah.Marr-Guertin@aaci.org
.
AACI announced they are awarding Assemblymember Patrick Ahrens because, “…of his unwavering advocacy and leadership advancing equity and access for underserved communities.”
Reflecting on receiving this award, Assemblymember Ahrens said,
“I am deeply proud of being selected for this honor by AACI. Just like the namesake of this award - Chinese American community leader Gordon Chan - I have prioritized giving back to our communities because I recognize and appreciate the opportunities our community has provided me, and I know the importance of helping create opportunities for all in our community to rise to their greatest potential. While I am just getting started in my work as freshman legislator, I am putting people first by prioritizing legislative actions to address the cost-of-living crisis as well as protect and expand necessary public services that support struggling Californians like childcare, healthcare, and public education.”
###
Assemblymember Patrick Ahrens
represents the Silicon Valley in the California State Assembly for District 26. He serves on the Assembly Committees on Budget, Business and Professions, Communications and Conveyance, Rules, Transportation, and Budget Subcommittee No. 2 on Human Services. Assemblymember Ahrens is the Co-Chair of the California Legislative Technology & Innovation Caucus, and a member of the California Legislative Jewish and Bay Area Caucuses.
Related Files
File
8-1-2025_aaci_honors_asm_ahrens_w_gordon_chan_award.pdf