AB 495 a Necessity for Parents Facing Cruel Immigration Raids and the Threat of Family Separation
Statement from Assemblywoman Celeste Rodriguez:
“The cruel and unlawful federal immigration enforcement actions are spreading fear through many communities like mine. Californians are scared to go to work, send their kids to school or make their medical appointments. I am working on AB 495 with trusted legal attorneys and children's advocates to help families facing family separation make caregiving arrangements.
The Family Preparedness Plan Act educates childcare providers to prepare for ICE raids and strengthens legal tools for families to make caregiving arrangements and remain unified after separation due to detention, deportation, or hospitalization. Under the bill, the Caregiver’s Authorization Affidavit will now recognize trusted adults and extended family members such as godparents, which parents select to care for their children in the event that they are unable to.
Let me be clear,
a caregiver’s authorization affidavit does not grant any level of legal custody, does not bypass child welfare protections, does not prevent authorities from investigating abuse or trafficking concerns, and does not supersede any parents’ rights.
Any claim that the bill legalizes human trafficking and kidnapping is not only false, but harmful fearmongering that distracts from the actual goal of protecting vulnerable children in times of crisis.”
Statement from Public Counsel:
“The goal of AB 495 is to increase parents' control over their children's futures by expanding the legal tools available to plan for the care of their children during temporary absences. At this time when too many families are at risk of separation, this legislation provides them with nuanced tools to make a plan that works best for them -- and prevents unnecessary permanent separations. We are proud to partner with Assemblyperson Celeste Rodriguez on AB 495, which puts children and families first."
- Sharon Cartagena, Directing Attorney, Child Youth & Family Advocacy, Public Counsel.
Statement from Alliance for Children’s Rights:
“We put the well-being of children at the forefront. AB 495 advances the goal, and the necessity, of supporting children and families in their communities. It promotes parent engagement in making the hard decisions that are best for their family and provides options to help support them in times of crisis. We are proud to stand with our community, Assemblymember Rodriguez, and our co-sponsors in supporting options for families facing the trauma of separation.”
- Jennifer L. Braun, President and CEO.
Statement from Coalition for Humane Immigrant Rights Los Angeles (CHIRLA):
“The federal government is terrorizing our immigrant communities with their plans of mass deportation. Families are being separated and others are in fear they will be next. We must ensure children in mixed status households are being properly cared for in the case of their parents being detained or deported by Immigration Enforcement. This is why AB 495 is so important at this time. AB 495 aims to protect children with immigrant parents. We urge our legislators to pass AB 495 and thank Assemblymember Celeste Rodriguez for championing this bill and protecting our children.”
- Angelica Salas, Executive Director, Coalition for Humane Immigrant Rights (CHIRLA)