SACRAMENTO
—Senate President pro Tempore Mike McGuire, Senator Christopher Cabaldon, Assembly Majority Leader Aguiar-Curry, Assemblymember Damon Connolly, and Assemblymember Chris Rogers have announced the launch of the Sonoma State Commitment initiative, following months of turmoil at Sonoma State University. The initiative marks a turning point for the entire North Bay region, building brighter futures and stronger communities for all.
The historic initiative will be the start of the University’s next chapter and long-term turnaround plan, which will provide tens of thousands of students in the North Bay region—and from every corner of the Golden State—with life-changing educational opportunities, brighter economic futures, and stronger communities.
The initiative will start with a $45 m
illion state investment which will grow and stabilize SSU’s key programs, and restore some faculty positions and academic degrees at the campus. This transformational funding is embedded in the state budget, which will be voted on later this week by the Legislature before heading to Governor Newsom’s desk for final signature.
Key components of the Sonoma State Commitment include: building a first-of-its-kind career center to connect students and graduates with local employers, launching an aggressive recruitment
campaign to expand college access for thousands of students, investing in new academic degrees to address regional and statewide workforce needs, growing
SSU’s nursing program to meet the growing demand from patients, regional hospitals and health centers, restoring some key faculty positions to ensure academic success, and helping fund Sonoma State’s Athletics program over the next few years.
The long-term recovery plan is the result of months of collaboration and community engagement with state leaders, and represents a turning point for SSU, which has been the home of the North Bay's brightest minds for generations.
"Sonoma State’s impact on our region is nothing short of profound. SSU has always been—and will always be—a regional powerhouse in higher education and economic activity, changing lives one student at a time. The Sonoma State Commitment will be the catalyst that will deliver on the vision of countless students, dedicated faculty and staff, and community members who have stepped up and spoken out in support of this beloved institution," said
Pro Tem McGuire (D-North Coast).
"I'm grateful to Senator Cabaldon, Assembly Majority Leader Aguiar-Curry, Assemblymember Connolly, Assemblymember Rogers, and Congressman Thompson, along with CSU Chancellor Garcia, for coming together to solve the impossible and never giving up on SSU. Without a doubt, we have much more work ahead but we all look forward to continue digging deep with the community, students, faculty and alumni to ensure that Sonoma State's future is bright for generations.”
“Over the last several months, we have listened to the SSU community detail many problems and potential solutions throughout multiple public forums and meetings, and today, we are ready to stand behind the Sonoma State Commitment to put these solutions into action. I am impressed by the collaboration of campus stakeholders, faculty, leadership, and most all, SSU students, for speaking up and standing proud for the future of all Seawolves. This wouldn’t have happened without the leadership of the entire North Bay legislative delegation, and I look forward to continue supporting and shaping SSU’s success story for years to come,” said
Assemblymember Damon Connolly (D-San Rafael).
"This $45 million state budget allocation is a big win for Sonoma State University and for the community, students, and faculty who
spoke up for their
beloved campus. Sonoma State can use this critical infusion of funding to restore at least some of the cuts planned for the coming year and, even more importantly, to chart a path toward becoming an institution more students choose to attend. If my bill, SB 640, is enacted as I hope, Sonoma State and other under-enrolled CSU campuses could receive a boost with the automatic admission of every qualified high school student in the state,”
said
Senator Christopher Cabaldon (D-Yolo).
“
I'm grateful to Pro Tem McGuire and the North Bay legislators for their non-stop support of SSU. This comeback plan serves our students and benefits the legacy of this incredible university that has supported young minds and the North Bay community for so many years,"
Assemblymember Chris Rogers (D-Santa Rosa)
said.
“Higher education opens doors for people wanting to improve themselves. It strengthens our communities throughout California, and has contributed significantly to us becoming the fourth-largest economy in the world,” said
Assembly Majority Leader Cecilia Aguiar-Curry
(D-Winters).
“As the backbone of higher education for the region, it’s a destination for high school and community college students from Lake, Sonoma, and Napa counties in my Assembly district. I’m looking forward to seeing Sonoma State meet its potential for decades to come.”
"A diverse group of community members and hundreds from the campus community came together to support Sonoma State during these hard times, and I'm grateful for the milestone we've reached today with the Sonoma State Commitment and significant state investment. SSU faculty, staff, and students are the heart of our community, and we will all continue to work together to cement SSU's role leading the future of innovation and education in the Golden State,"
said U.S. Congressman Mike Thompson (CA-04).
“The Legislative leaders and SSU leadership have listened carefully to the community and understand that Sonoma State is so much more than a university but also an economic powerhouse, a community hub, and a place where lives are changed for good. We’re excited to launch the Sonoma State Commitment initiative and we can’t thank Pro Tem McGuire and the North Bay Legislative Delegation enough for investing in the future of this state right here at SSU. We’re confident this long-term recovery plan will catapult SSU into its next chapter of prosperity and innovation,” said
Sonoma State Interim President Emily Cutrer.
“Many of our hard-working faculty members have had their worlds turned upside down since the devastating budget cuts were announced this January. For some, this has been the fight of their careers and today, we have been handed a huge win in reclaiming SSU as a storied institution for higher learning. The faculty look forward to working with SSU leadership to ensure this $45 million investment is implemented and key academic positions are reinstated,” said
CFA Sonoma State chapter President Emily Asencio.
"Intercollegiate athletics brings tremendous value to Sonoma State University. These talented student-athletes come here to perform at the highest level while balancing their academic pursuits with the intense demands of collegiate competition. It’s great preparation for their futures and a meaningful way to elevate the visibility of Sonoma State across California while proudly competing on the NCAA’s national stage. I’m especially proud of the many student-athletes who have courageously spoken up since January, sharing just how profoundly losing athletics has impacted them and our campus community. Their voices were instrumental in shaping the path forward and securing the resources that could bring a transformative impact to Sonoma State, allowing intercollegiate athletics to not only continue but truly thrive for years to come—building on an already rich tradition of excellence.”
SSU Senior Director of Athletics Dr. Nicole Annaloro
said.
“At Redwood Credit Union, we know that local employers like us depend on Sonoma State to grow and thrive. From healthcare to finance, employers want to attract the highly-skilled workforce that SSU helps produce, and students depend on a robust local economy for everything from internships to part-time jobs to their next career move after graduation. I’m thrilled to see the Sonoma State Commitment unveiled this week, knowing what a strong and stable university means to our region’s top employers and growing industry sectors in the North Bay,” said
Redwood Credit Union President and CEO Brett Martinez.
In addition to $45 million to directly support Sonoma State, the state will also allocate an additional $5 million to the CSU system to assist low enrollment campuses with expanded student outreach and recruitment efforts.
In another positive development, the state budget also reflects a rejection of the proposed 7.95% reduction to the CSU budget which was presented earlier this year, restoring an additional $5 to $6 million in funding directly to SSU (in addition to the $45 million secured for the Sonoma State Commitment).
A third community forum on the future of Sonoma State will be scheduled on campus in the coming weeks, focused on the launch of the Sonoma State Commitment.