Droves of “Sephora kids” are buying anti-aging products despite the health risks posed by these products. Companies are pocketing profits by selling cosmetic products —
marketed as anti-aging, wrinkle-reducing and brightening — to children. But they contain chemicals that may be damaging to children’s young, sensitive skin. Even so, the multi-billion beauty industry in the U.S. continues to fuel this trend to the detriment of youth’s health and safety.
Today, Assemblymember Alex Lee introduced new legislation to protect children from the unnecessary risks of anti-aging products. The bill bans the sale of anti-aging products that contain potent and harsh ingredients to kids under the age of 18.
“The beauty industry is cashing in on the ‘Sephora kids’ phenomenon where children are buying and using adult anti-aging products,” said Assemblymember Lee. “Kids don’t need anti-aging products. The beauty industry knows that, and some companies have acknowledged the issue. But their statements — absent real and meaningful action —
are performative and fall short of responsible behavior. We have to stop the beauty industry from exploiting our youth. It’s time we take action, and my bill
is a common sense measure to protect kids from unnecessary and potentially harmful anti-aging products.”
Dermatologists are sounding the alarm amid skyrocketing use of anti-aging products by children, mostly young girls.
The British Association of Dermatologists states
that children as young as eight who are using these products could experience irreversible skin problems. Common ingredients in anti-aging skin products are retinols, glycolic acid and ascorbic acid. These ingredients are used to improve the appearance of fine lines and wrinkles by boosting collagen production and increasing cell turnover. However,
UCLA Health reports
that retinols can cause rashes, and increase the risk of sunburn as well as sun damage. Further,
the Connecticut Children’s Medical Center notes
that skincare products meant for adults can lead to skin irritation, redness, breakouts, and even long-term skin damage.
Assemblymember Lee’s bill will ban the sale of cosmetic products to children under the age of 18 containing any of the following ingredients:
Vitamin A and its derivatives including retinoids and retinol
An alpha hydroxy acid including glycolic acid, ascorbic acid (vitamin C) or citric acid
Anti-aging products that address concerns like collagen loss or fine lines aren’t necessary for children. Cell renewal rates change as people age. Babies and young children have a faster cell turnover rate than adults, which results in their naturally soft, smooth, and radiant skin. Skin cell turnover rate slows down as adults age. The decline is one of the factors contributing to visible signs of aging like wrinkles, dullness, and uneven texture.
Additionally, children have more sensitive skin than adults. Some of the key differences include a thinner epidermis, weaker skin barrier, still developing immune system, higher pH level, and faster skin cell turnover. This makes their skin more vulnerable to external irritants, environmental factors, and allergens.
Regulatory bodies, including the U.S. Food and Drug Administration and European Medicines Agency, do not require testing of cosmetic products such as anti-aging creams on children. Only products specifically intended for use by children, such as baby lotions, sunscreens and medications undergo age-appropriate testing.
With young consumers' interest in skincare growing exponentially, it’s all the more important to protect them from potentially harmful products. U.S. families with teens aged between 13 and 17 increased
their skin care purchases by 28.6% over 2023
, while those with tweens aged 6 to 12 grew their purchases by 27.2%.
The trend of children buying anti-aging products is so pervasive that in 2024,
Swedish pharmacy chain Apotek Hjärtat
announced an age limit for purchasing products due to concerns of kids consuming anti-aging personal care and beauty products designed for adults. In response to the rise of kids using anti-aging products,
the Attorney General of Connecticut has also warned parents
about the harms of anti-aging products for children.
Assemblymember Lee is committed to ensuring that the beauty industry in the U.S. takes concrete action on the issue. In 2024,
he led a bipartisan group of 20 state legislators
in calling for the beauty industry to address the alarming trend of kids purchasing anti-aging products, and Assemblymember Lee’s new legislation builds on his ongoing work to protect children’s health.