SACRAMENTO
– Assemblymember Darshana Patel (D-San Diego County) and bill co-sponsors—San Diego District Attorney’s Office, California District Attorney Association, and the California Police Chiefs Association—celebrate the passage of AB 237 from the Assembly Public Safety Committee. AB 237 safeguards people who work in, visit, or rely on daycares, schools, universities, workplaces, houses of worship, or medical facilities.
“Last week’s vote moves us closer to protecting people inside these institutions, those who visit, and everyone who relies on their services,” said Assemblymember Darshana Patel. “While the threats to Shoal Creek Elementary prompted this legislation, we see the need for it statewide as these key facilities remain unprotected. AB 237 is critical to protecting the people inside these institutions, those who visit, and everyone who relies on their services.”
Currently, the law has been interpreted as threats being illegal only if they are credible, specific, and targeted at a specific individual. This leaves people who work and receive services within institutions unprotected. AB 237 clarifies that willfully threatening to commit a crime at one of these institutions, with the specific intent of the statement being taken as a threat, is illegal. This empowers prosecutors to hold perpetrators accountable, facilitates the investigatory process, and prioritizes public safety in our communities.
Jenny Basinger—a Shoal Creek parent—testified on behalf of AB 237. She said,
“
The claim that you cannot threaten an entity is beyond false. We are the entity. We are Shoal Creek Elementary. The students, the staff, and the community are the ones left picking up the pieces of the threat. Please allow AB 237 to close the loophole that is currently victimizing our school and community.”
“
Every teacher who dedicates their life to developing the next generation and every student deserves to feel safe in our schools. Changing the law will increase our ability to prevent violence and death at these institutions,” said San Diego County District Attorney Summer Stephan. “To protect public safety and to deter those who would consider making such threats, my office is proud to sponsor Assembly Bill 237 and the commonsense changes Assemblymember Patel and our fellow sponsors are proposing.”