SACRAMENTO, CA – Assemblywoman Esmeralda Soria (D-Merced) has released the following statement regarding the official passing, and signing of the 2025-2026 budget.
“We are facing tough decisions this year, likely even harder decisions next year regarding California’s budget,”
Soria said. “
We are working within the constraints we have, while dealing with serious fiscal uncertainties at the federal level. Still, I believe this is a sound and responsible budget for California, that will help address the affordability crisis.
In this budget, we have to recognize the incredible investments we’ve made towards building more affordable housing in California. We also made it clear that despite the federal Administration’s continued rollback of healthcare investments and protections for women, the California Legislature fully rejected proposed cuts to Planned Parenthood and women’s health facilities. We also rejected cuts to the UC and CSU systems by protecting investments for higher education. We increased funding for TK-12 education. We chose to fund a cost of living adjustment to increase pay for childcare providers.
Over the coming months, we will continue to fight hard for our Central Valley families.
”
Housing
“One of the biggest housing wins for this budget includes the largest reform to the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA), in a generation. This will help to cut unnecessary red tape to speed up desperately needed housing production at all income levels. Including areas where it is most needed, like our underserved communities in the Central Valley.
It also includes $500 million for a new round of the Homeless Housing, Assistance, and Prevention Program (HHAP), to provide local governments with flexible funding to address California’s homelessness crisis. Another housing victory in the budget is providing $300 million for the California Dream for All Program, helping first-generation homebuyers afford a down payment. This is especially important for those in the Valley struggling to achieve a slice of the American Dream by owning a home.
We also included $120 million for the Multi-Family Housing Program, to fund affordable housing construction across the state. Additionally, this budget provides $500 million for the Low Income Housing Tax Credit, incentivizing private investments in affordable housing construction. In order to help local governments provide services and housing placement for unhoused residents, the budget also includes $100 million for the Encampment Resolution Fund.”
Public Safety
“This budget
provides $100 million dollars to implement Prop 36
, something the voters and I overwhelmingly supported. The budget also provides funds to backfill the Victims of Crime Act (VOCA), to support organizations helping crime survivors, including victims of human trafficking.”
Education
“Despite declining revenues, we have prioritized our children’s education in this budget, increasing spending for each student by over $7,000. We are also fully funding the Local Control Funding Formula and ensuring schools are receiving the entirety of the Prop 98 funds, to which they are entitled.
We are also funding a 2.4 percent increased cost-of-living-adjustment across all TK-12 school districts and community colleges. Additionally, while the federal government is slashing investments for our kids, we are spending an additional $160 million towards providing free meals to all of our students.”
IHSS & Long-Term Care
“In-Home Supportive Services or (IHSS), is important to me, it’s personal for me. Some of us have elderly parents with dementia, and children with special needs who rely on IHSS workers. Workers who dedicate their lives to provide the best quality of life to our loved ones.
This budget rejected Governor Newsom’s proposed IHSS cuts.
”
Medi-Cal & Health
“I proudly represent Madera, Merced, and Fresno counties, some of the most underserved areas of California that heavily depend on Medi-Cal.
60 percent of my constituents rely on Medi-Cal.  This budget rejects Medi-Cal cuts by delaying and modifying key provisions.
Military Retirement Exclusion
“This budget will provide a state tax exemption for Veterans beginning in 2027. The exemption will be for retirement and certain benefit payments to veterans and their surviving spouses. Since uniform services and California National Guard retirement pay stops upon death of the retiree, the Department of Defense (DoD), provides a continuous lifetime annuity for their dependents as an inflation-adjusted monthly income.”
The 2025-26 budget has been signed by the Governor, and will take effect tomorrow, Tuesday, July 1, 2025.
# # #
Assemblywoman Esmeralda Soria represents the 27th Assembly District, which includes communities in Fresno, Madera, and Merced counties.