SACRAMENTO, CA
– Today, the California State Assembly passed a $50 million package to protect vulnerable communities, civil rights, reproductive freedom, and climate action.
The key provisions of the package include:
SBX1-1
: Amends the 2024 Budget Act to create a State Litigation Fund, allocating $25 million to the California Department of Justice to pursue affirmative litigation against any unlawful actions by the federal Administration and defend against federal lawsuits aimed at undermining California's laws and policies.
SBX1-2
: Amends the Budget Act to allocate $25 million for Legal Services. This funding will provide essential legal aid to vulnerable populations, including immigrants, individuals at risk of eviction, victims of wage theft, and survivors of intimate partner violence. The funds will be distributed through existing state grant programs. This funding will go to protect countless law-abiding workers, students, mothers, and children in California –
not
benefit serious or violent felons.
"California will always stand strong in defense of the most vulnerable among us, especially when faced with external threats, including those from the federal government," said
Assemblymember González (D-Los Angeles).
"While we hope we never need to utilize this fund, we must be ready to protect our children, families, students, and immigrant communities from harmful federal policies. I am grateful to the Governor, the Speaker, my colleagues in the Assembly, and our partners in the Senate for working together to swiftly secure these critical resources."
In November, Governor Gavin Newsom issued a proclamation convening a special session of the Legislature in response to public statements and proposals from President Trump and his advisors, as well as actions taken during his first term in office. These proposals threaten California's values, economy, fundamental civil rights, reproductive freedom, clean air and water, and the well-being of working families—especially immigrant communities.
Assemblymember Mark González is the Assembly Majority Whip. He represents the 54th Assembly District composed of the cities of Los Angeles, Commerce, Montebello, and Vernon.
CONTACT:
Jaspreet Johl; Jaspreet.Johl@asm.ca.gov; (916) 335-8871