SACRAMENTO -
Assemblymember Josh Lowenthal (D-Long Beach) announced today the introduction of AB 566 – a bill that would require web browsers to offer consumers the ability to exercise their privacy rights under California’s best-in-the-nation privacy law through global opt-out tools, often referred to as opt-out preference signals.
Californians have the right to easily opt-out of the sale of their personal information through opt-out preference signals, but many of the top web browsers do not offer such signals. AB 566 makes it easier for consumers to state their privacy preferences from the start by requiring web browsers to allow a user to exercise their opt-out rights at all businesses with which they interact online in a single step.
“I firmly believe in the right to privacy and that our digital footprint, including our personal data, is our property and should be protected; that’s why I’m carrying this bill. Many consumers are unaware of how their data is being collected and utilized when they are navigating the internet and the unintended use or misuse of our personal data remains far too common. AB 566will ensure that an individual’s right to privacy is upheld by requiring web browsers to offer global opt-out settings,” Lowenthal stated.
Currently, eight states, including California, require businesses to honor browser privacy signals as an opt-out of sale of their personal information. The California Consumer Privacy Act gives California consumers the right to stop the sale and sharing of their personal information, including via opt-out preference signals. Businesses receiving these signals are currently required to honor them. If this bill is passed, California would become the first state to require browser vendors to directly support these signals, which would have sweeping benefits.
AB 566 is sponsored by the California Privacy Protection Agency.
AB 566 awaits referral to the appropriate policy committees where it will be heard later this year.
Josh Lowenthal represents California’s 69th Assembly District, which comprises the communities of Carson, the Catalina Islands, Long Beach, Los Angeles and Signal Hill.