In the aftermath of the devastating wildfires, residents in affected areas are looking to the California State Legislature for swift action to help lead the recovery effort.
Assemblymember Rick Chavez Zbur (left) and Assembly Speaker Robert Rivas (right) meet with legislative colleagues and local elected officials in the aftermath of the Los Angeles County wildfires, on Thursday, Jan. 16, 2025.
LOS ANGELES, CA
—Democratic Caucus Chair and Assemblymember Rick Chavez Zbur (D-Hollywood) hosted a roundtable meeting at his Hollywood District Office with California Assembly Speaker Robert Rivas, colleagues from the Legislature, and local elected officials from across the West Los Angeles area to discuss legislative solutions related to the devastation and damage caused by the recent Los Angeles County wildfires.
"The wildfires have left a devastating mark on our communities. It is imperative that we in the State Legislature do everything we can to help our people rebuild their lives as quickly as possible,"
said Assemblymember Rick Chavez Zbur.
"That's why Speaker Rivas and my legislative colleagues met with local elected leaders from across the West LA area in my district office to understand the immediate and long-term needs of our communities in the aftermath of these fires. I am moved by the work and dedication of the many public servants who attended the meeting today who are doing everything they can to serve our constituents. Assembly Speaker Rivas, my legislative colleagues, and I are all committed to ensuring that the people of Los Angeles recover quickly and stronger than before."
Assemblymember Rick Chavez Zbur hosts meeting among Assembly Speaker Robert Rivas, members of the Legislature, and local elected officials in his Hollywood office, on Thursday, Jan. 16, 2025.
Please see below the full list of  elected officials:
Assembly Speaker Robert Rivas
Assemblymember Rick Chavez Zbur
Assemblymember Jesse Gabriel
Assemblymember Isaac Bryan
Assemblymember Sade Elhawary
Senator Ben Allen
Los Angeles County Supervisor Lindsey P. Horvath
Los Angeles City Attorney Hydee Feldstein Soto
Los Angeles City Councilmember Bob Blumenfield
Los Angeles City Councilmember Traci Park
Los Angeles City Councilmember Nithya Raman
Los Angeles City Councilmember Hugo Soto-Martinez
Los Angeles City Councilmember Katy Yaroslavsky
Santa Monica Mayor Pro Tempore Caroline Torosis
Santa Monica City Councilmember Barry Snell
Santa Monica City Councilmember Jesse Zwick
West Hollywood Vice Mayor Chelsea Byers
Beverly Hills Vice Mayor Sharona Nazarian
Beverly Hills City Councilmember John Mirisch
Culver City Vice Mayor Freddy Puza
Culver City Councilmember Yasmine-Imani McMorrin
Los Angeles Unified School District Board Member Nick Melvoin
Also  in attendance was Beverly Hills Fire Chief Greg Barton.
To  learn more about available resources for victims of the Southern  California wildfires please visit my website at
assembly.ca.gov/zbur
.
Assemblymember  Rick Chavez Zbur serves as the Democratic Caucus Chair for the  California State Assembly and represents the 51st Assembly District,  which includes Universal City, Hollywood, Hancock Park, West  Hollywood, Beverly Hills, Westwood, West Los Angeles, Santa Monica,  and other portions of Los Angeles.
CONTACT:
Vienna Montague, (916) 319-2051,
Vienna.Montague@asm.ca.gov