Sacramento, Calif.
– Today,
AB 1417
, authored by Assemblymember Catherine Stefani, passed the Assembly floor with a preliminary vote of 62-0. If signed into law, the bill will require offshore wind developers to report to the California Energy Commission (CEC) on their contributions to local communities and Tribal Nations for capacity building activities related to offshore wind.
The bill would also make capacity-building activities an eligible allocation for funding through the CEC’s Voluntary Offshore Wind and Coastal Resources Protection Program, ensuring that any voluntary donations and grants into this account can be used for this purpose.
“AB 1417 ensures that as California leads the nation in offshore wind development, we also lead in transparency, equity, and community engagement,” said
Assemblymember Catherine Stefani, California District 19
. “By working in close partnership with both environmental and industry stakeholders, this bill makes capacity-building efforts and grants in local and tribal communities eligible for funding through the California Energy Commission. Together, we can build a clean energy future that uplifts every community and leaves no one behind.”
AB 1417 represents a proactive step in ensuring that local communities and Tribes are meaningfully involved in offshore wind projects from the start, well before construction is underway. The bill requires offshore wind developers to report the following to the CEC every 90 days:
The total amount of donations made to local groups or Tribal Nations
The number of groups or Tribes that received donations
The counties where these recipients are based
The types of eligible entities that received donations
The CEC will then be required to post this information publicly on their website and submit a report to the Legislature on the effectiveness and implementation of these capacity-building funds. In addition to increasing transparency and accountability regarding direct contributions, these provisions would allow the state to collaborate more effectively with offshore wind developers, identify and fill in funding gaps, and build public trust crucially needed for the success of offshore wind development.
“As a proud sponsor of AB 1417, Brightline celebrates the passage of this bill through the California Assembly,” said
Eddie Ahn, Executive Director of Brightline Defense
. “It is crucial to ensure that impacted communities and Tribal Nations have a voice in offshore wind development. AB 1417 would provide greater transparency and opportunity for capacity building in local regions so that communities can shape and benefit from offshore wind projects. This will create a smoother pathway for local jobs and community benefits, and provide a model for equitable clean energy development.”
“Offshore wind development in California must be equitable and transparent. The passage of AB 1417 through the California Assembly is an important step to making this a reality across stakeholders in impacted communities, Tribal Nations, government, and industry. Building capacity within these diverse partnerships is vital in the transition away from fossil fuels to a clean energy future,” said
Haley Ehlers, Executive Director at Climate First: Replacing Oil & Gas (CFROG).
California’s ambitious goal of achieving
7.6 gigawatts
of offshore wind capacity—enough to power nearly six million homes—comes at a pivotal moment. As the state confronts the growing challenges of climate change, offshore wind projects present an opportunity to protect the state’s coastal ecosystems, generate reliable clean energy, and create up to
65,000 high-quality jobs
across various sectors from construction to maintenance.
AB 1417 is designed to help support local communities and Tribes in receiving resources they need to engage in this transformative industry. By helping groups attend workshops, build expertise, and participate in key decision making spaces, the bill seeks to ensure that those who are most impacted by offshore wind development capture its benefits. “The passage of AB 1417 through the California Assembly is a critical step toward making California’s creation of a new offshore wind industry truly equitable. Offshore wind has enormous potential to help decarbonize California's electric grid, but without support, local communities risk being left out of the conversation,” said
Matt Simmons, Climate Attorney at Environmental Protection Information Center
. “The passage of this bill is an important first step in ensuring local communities have the resources to engage, lead, and benefit from offshore wind development."
“We celebrate the progress of AB 1417 for it is crucially important that our Tribal Nations have their voices heard in the development of offshore wind floating turbines,” said
Ramona Cornell du Houx, Communications Director at Elected Officials To Protect America (EOPA) Code Blue
. “Offshore wind is an abundant, reliable and proven technology that is the key to diversifying California’s energy portfolio that will meet the state’s growing energy demands and ensure a smooth transition to 100 percent clean energy.”
The bill now heads to the Senate, backed by a broad coalition of environmental justice, labor, energy, and conservation organizations.
Interview contact
: Leela Yadav,
leela@sunstonestrategies.org
, 202-815-3947
###