January 23, 2025 Sacramento, CA
— Assemblymember Dr. LaShae Sharp-Collins is proud to announce her appointment as Assistant Majority Leader for Policy and Research in the California State Assembly, in addition to her recent appointments to several influential committees. These leadership positions reflect her commitment to advancing critical policies that will positively impact California's communities.
“I’m confident Assemblymember Sharp-Collins will be a wise and strong steward for deep knowledge, data and community input on our leadership team, and I look forward to working with LaShae in her role as Assistant Majority Leader of Policy and Research” said Speaker Rivas.
“As Assistant Majority Leader for Policy and Research, I am honored to have the opportunity to help shape the Assembly’s policy agenda and ensure that our legislative priorities reflect the needs of all Californians,” said Assemblymember Sharp-Collins. “In my new role, I will work to promote effective policies, direct resources to those most in need, and support long-term solutions for the challenges facing our state.”
In addition to her leadership role, Assemblymember Sharp-Collins has been appointed to the following key committees, where she will continue her work to improve healthcare, education, public safety, and more:
Standing Committees:
Budget – Contributing to critical fiscal decisions to ensure state resources are directed to essential services.
Health – Advocating for policies that improve the health and well-being of all Californians.
Higher Education – Working to expand access, affordability, and quality in California’s higher education system.
Public Safety – Focusing on policies that create safer communities for all Californians.
Aging and Long-Term Care – Working to improve the lives of older Californians and ensure they receive the care and services they deserve.
Subcommittee
:
Budget Subcommittee No. 2 on Human Services – Ensuring that the needs of California’s most vulnerable populations are met.
“Serving in these key roles will allow me to address the most pressing issues facing our state—from healthcare to public safety, and from higher education to aging,” Sharp-Collins continued. “I look forward to collaborating with my colleagues to ensure that California remains a state where everyone has the opportunity to thrive.”
Assemblymember LaShae Sharp-Collins is dedicated to representing her constituents with integrity, providing thoughtful leadership, and working to deliver real results for California.