SACRAMENTO, CA.
— Today, Assembly Bill (AB) 379, authored by Assemblymembers Nick Schultz, Stephanie Nguyen, Maggy Krell, and many more, passed the Assembly Floor with bipartisan support. This bill would strengthen the penalties for adults who solicit a minor for sex and establish a state grant program for survivors of human trafficking.
“Our laws must make it absolutely clear that children are not for sale and AB 379 does just that," said
San Diego County District Attorney Summer Stephan
. "AB 379 equips law enforcement with the tools we need to protect children from criminal buyers who prey on them, fueling human trafficking by lining the pockets of traffickers with millions of dollars. AB 379 not only holds criminals accountable, but it also expands the safety network and support for survivors as they recover from severe trauma. I’m proud to co-sponsor Assembly Bill 379 and I am grateful for all the San Diego County legislators who supported this critical legislation with their resounding yes vote for dignity and justice today. I look forward to AB 379 becoming a law that protects the most vulnerable."
“We appreciate the time our colleagues have put into making this bill stronger. There have been many conversations with local and state leaders, including the San Diego County District Attorney’s office, to ensure we are pushing strong penalties against those trafficking children. Thank you to Assemblymember Schultz and the rest of the authors of AB 379 for making it clear that anyone who exploits a child will be punished severely,” stated
Assemblymember Tasha Boerner
.
"I am proud to co-author AB 379 to enhance penalties for crimes related to child sex trafficking and prostitution," said
Assemblymember David Alvarez
. "As a parent and a person of faith, I believe we have a moral obligation to protect the most vulnerable among us, especially children and survivors of exploitation.”
“Every child deserves to grow up free from exploitation and harm,” said
Assemblymember Darshana Patel
. “AB 379 sends a clear message: adults who sex traffic minors will face serious consequences. I’m proud to co-author this bill because it protects vulnerable youth, supports survivors, and reflects the thoughtful work needed to get this right.”
“AB 379 is the product of important input from survivors, prosecutors, and community-based organizations working on the frontlines to end human trafficking,” said
Assemblymember Chris Ward
. “This bill focuses on victims by strengthening penalties for exploiters, supporting vertical prosecution, and investing directly in services led by and developed for survivors. It’s a comprehensive approach to protect vulnerable Californians and prosecute traffickers.”
“We need to be absolutely clear that in the state of California, 16 and 17 year old children are not for sale. AB 379 is a critical step to ensure we provide protections for vulnerable minors and go after predators. I’m glad to see that California is increasing penalties on human traffickers,” stated
Assemblywoman Laurie Davies
.
###
Assemblymember Tasha Boerner represents the 77th District, which encompasses Carlsbad, Encinitas, Solana Beach, Del Mar, Coronado and the coastal communities of La Jolla south to Downtown San Diego. You can learn more about Assemblymember Boerner at
a77.asmdc.org
,
Facebook
,
Instagram
, or
Twitter/X
.