Assemblymember Rick Chavez Zbur introduced AB 715, a bill aimed at protecting attorneys from disciplinary action for providing legal services related to health care that is lawful in California, including access to reproductive rights and gender-affirming care.
SACRAMENTO, CA –
Today,
Democratic Caucus Chair and Assemblymember Rick Chavez Zbur (D-Hollywood) introduced AB 715, the California Attorney Protection Act, designed to safeguard attorneys from disciplinary action when providing legal services to patients, medical providers, and others seeking or offering health care services that are lawful in California but may be illegal in other states.
Sponsored by the Planned Parenthood Affiliates of California (PPAC), Equality California (EQCA), and the Women Lawyers Association of Los Angeles (WLALA)
, AB 715 strengthens California's leadership in protecting reproductive rights and gender-affirming care, and builds on California's broader strategy to combat attacks on health care and maintain its role as a safe haven for individuals seeking care that respects their rights and dignity. The bill is co-authored by Assemblymembers Maggie Krell (D-Sacramento) and Liz Ortega (D-San Leandro).
"As hostile state legislatures across the country criminalize reproductive health care and gender-affirming care, California must continue to lead as a beacon of justice,"
Assemblymember Zbur said
. "AB 715 ensures that attorneys in our state can provide critical legal assistance to patients, providers, and families without fear of reprisal for defending rights that are fundamental in California. This bill is not just about protecting attorneys — it's about protecting the people they represent."
In recent years, a wave of legislation in other states has sought to punish those providing or aiding access to sensitive health care services, such as abortion and gender-affirming care. These actions have created legal uncertainty for attorneys who defend the rights of patients and providers. AB 715 ensures that the
State Bar Act
is updated to reflect California's commitment to protecting these essential health care rights and the legal professionals who advocate for them.
"Amidst ongoing attacks on sensitive services like abortion and gender-affirming care, it is critical we take proactive measures to protect the legal professionals advocating for and on behalf of patients and providers, as well as to ensure California remains a safe haven for reproductive health care and its advocates," said
Planned Parenthood Affiliates of California CEO and President Jodi Hicks.
"Over the past several years, California has greatly expanded legal protections for doctors and other health professionals to ensure they can provide essential healthcare without fear of punishment or retribution. California lawyers who fight to secure clients' access to critical healthcare deserve these same safeguards," said
Equality California Executive Director Tony Hoang
. "AB 715 is an important and timely measure that reaffirms California's unwavering commitment to reproductive freedom and bodily autonomy."
"Lawyers play a critical role in upholding California's protections for reproductive and gender-affirming care, but extremist efforts in other states create risk for attorneys who undertake this important work," said
Women Lawyers Association of Los Angeles President Noelle Natoli
. "The Women Lawyers Association of Los Angeles recognizes the urgent need for a shield law for lawyers, and this bill offers the protection and reassurance our members and attorneys across the state need."
AB 715 will be referred to policy committee in the coming weeks.
Assemblymember Rick Chavez Zbur serves as the Democratic Caucus Chair for the California State Assembly and represents the 51st Assembly District, which includes Universal City, Hollywood, Hancock Park, West Hollywood, Beverly Hills, Westwood, West Los Angeles, Santa Monica, and other portions of Los Angeles.
CONTACT:
Vienna Montague, (916) 319-2051,
Vienna.Montague@asm.ca.gov