(SACRAMENTO) - Assemblymember Steve Bennett (D-Ventura) introduced
AB 954
that would launch a pilot program for Caltrans to develop a bike highway program. Offering full separation from motor vehicles, bike highways accommodate high volumes of people traveling longer distance on bicycles (more than 3 miles) by connecting users to major destinations, employment centers, and transit hubs.
Bike highways offer an important alternative to residents
seeking relief from rising gas prices
and those working to
lower their carbon footprint
. In June 2022, Caltrans released a
Bay Area Bike Highway Study
that identifies feasible opportunities to add these corridors and incorporates best practices most suitable for the region. With the
U.S. importing an estimated 2.4 million e-bikes between 2020-2023
, commuting longer distances by bike is becoming more feasible for the average consumer.
California prioritizes bicycling as a key part of its larger decarbonization goals
, and is among
19 states offering assistance
to purchase an e-bike with the
launch
of the
California E-Bike Incentive Program in late 2024
. The State of California was recognized as the
4th most Bicycle Friendly State in the Country
by the League of American Bicyclists in December 2024.
"I'd like to see California elevate our offerings to our residents," said
Assemblymember Steve Bennett
. "We must strengthen and diversify the connections neighborhood to neighborhood and from city to city. Bike highways provide the highest sense of safety and will attract more people to take advantage of their bikes. If you build it, they will come."
"The Bicycle Highways Bill will create a safe, separated bikeway network, similar to California's highway system," said
CalBike Policy Director Jared Sanchez
. "This is an essential step to make getting around by bike a viable option for more Californians. We know better infrastructure leads to more biking and we know that more biking is crucial to combat climate change, so CalBike is excited to sponsor this bill."
Kate Faulkner, Government Liaison for Channel Islands Bike Club
said: "Channel Islands Bicycle Club, representing over 300 members, supports the Bicycle Highway Bill. Bike Highways will reduce traffic congestion, improve fitness and health, and provide travel options for those who don't feel safe cycling on roads.  Studies have shown that many people, particularly families, women, and seniors, would choose to bike if safe options are convenient and available."
"The Bicycle Highway Pilot Program under AB 954 is a vital investment in both infrastructure and people. For BikeVentura.org, it's an opportunity to expand our mission of delivering critical bicycle safety education to underserved communities, ensuring they can thrive in a transportation system designed with equity and safety at its core. BikeVentura stands proudly with Assemblymember Bennett on this transformative initiative," said
Lawrence Abele, Board Member of Bike Ventura
.
Assemblymember Bennett has supported active transportation throughout his tenure in the State Legislature and the Ventura County Board of Supervisors. He is chair of the Budget Subcommittee No. 4 on Transportation, Climate Change, Natural Resources, and Energy.
Steve Bennett represents the 38th Assembly District, which includes Camarillo, Fillmore, Ojai, Oxnard, Port Hueneme, Santa Paula, and Ventura. He is chair of the Budget Subcommittee No. 4 on Climate Change, Natural Resources, Energy and Transportation.
CONTACT:
Michelle.Sevilla@asm.ca.gov, (805) 485-4745 ext. 10638