(SACRAMENTO
,
CA) –
Today on the Assembly Floor,
Assemblymember John Harabedian (D-Pasadena)
honored Victoria Knapp, Chair of the Altadena Town Council and community activist, as Woman of the Year for Assembly District 41.
Victoria Knapp grew up in Pasadena and moved to Altadena nearly 15 years ago. She has been an elected member of the Town Council since 2017 and first served as Vice Chair in 2021 before becoming Chair in 2023. Actively involved across the Altadena community, she also served as President of the Altadena Arts Magnet Parent Teacher Association.
When the Eaton Fire devastated large parts of Altadena and the surrounding area in January, Victoria immediately sprang into action to help those in need. Though her own home was tragically destroyed in the fire, she has spent every day organizing relief efforts and advocating for the priorities of residents in the recovery and rebuilding process.
“Victoria truly represents the best of our community,” said
Assemblymember Harabedian
. “Despite experiencing the unthinkable trauma of losing her family’s home, she has dedicated herself to serving others and helping her neighbors get back on their feet. I couldn’t think of anyone who better embodies the spirit of Altadena in response to the Eaton Fire.”
“It is truly an honor to be named Woman of the Year for Assembly District 41 by Assemblymember Harabedian during Women’s History Month. This recognition is especially meaningful as it highlights the power of service and strength of community during a time when Altadena continues to heal after the catastrophic Eaton Fire,” said
Victoria Knapp, Woman of the Year
. “I am deeply grateful to Assemblymember Harabedian for acknowledging how local volunteerism can have a meaningful impact. This award is not just a personal honor, but a tribute to the resilience, compassion, and dedication of our entire Altadena community.”
The California State Legislature first recognized March as Women’s History Month in 1987 and has since continued the tradition. Each year, members of the State Legislature recognize exceptional women in their district with a celebration commemorating their efforts.
#####
Assemblymember John Harabedian represents the 41st District composed of the cities of La Ca
ñ
ada Flintridge, Pasadena, Altadena, Sierra Madre, Monrovia, Bradbury, San Dimas, La Verne, Claremont, Upland, Rancho Cucamonga, Oak Hills, Pi
ñ
on Hills and Phelan.