SACRAMENTO, CA
— Assembly Budget Chair Jesse Gabriel and Assembly Democrats moved with urgency on Monday to protect California’s access to federal funding for wildfires and critical public programs.
What Assembly Budget Chair Gabriel Said
“While we always hope to collaborate with our federal partners, we also have a responsibility to protect California taxpayers and to defend the fundamental rights of all Californians. For that reason, we cannot – and will not – stand idly by if the Administration breaks the law or violates the U.S. Constitution. Californians should rest assured that we will vigorously protect both their fair share of federal dollars and their fundamental constitutional rights.”
What Speaker Rivas Said
“Our priority in this Assembly is delivering opportunity and a life that is more affordable for all Californians. When the administration in Washington threatens vital federal aid that Californians have already paid for as it attempted to do this week, it makes life less affordable for our 40 million residents. Families and young children lose access to groceries and health care. Schools and universities see funding disappear. Local businesses and nonprofits miss out on loans and grants. Because of the federal administration’s action the cost of living threatens to increase for all Californians and all Americans.”
Today’s legislation to strengthen the state’s ability to fight unlawful and unconstitutional actions by the Trump administration comes as the President unilaterally attempted to freeze all federal funding last week. This move would have suspended all funding for initiatives to feed students and seniors, provide loans to small businesses and homeowners, and help Los Angeles fire victims rebuild and recover. SBX1-1 would amend the 2024 Budget Act to include a State Litigation Fund, allocating $25 million to the Department of Justice to assist in protecting California residents and taxpayers. For instance, if the federal government withholds emergency aid after a natural disaster, the fund will allow the DOJ to pursue legal recourse to secure the emergency aid.
###
Jesse Gabriel proudly represents the San Fernando Valley in the California State Legislature.