SACRAMENTO
–Assemblymember Kalra (D-San José) has been appointed by Speaker Robert Rivas to Chair the new Assembly Select Committee on Alternative Protein Innovation. Alternative proteins include cell-based, plant-based, and fermented options. Their production can diversify protein sources, opening up new markets to benefit farmers and bring down costs for consumers now facing record-breaking prices at their grocery stores—all while generating thousands of new jobs and a sustainable food system to support the growing population.
“I am thankful Speaker Rivas has established the Select Committee on Alternative Protein Innovation. The focus of this Committee is not just about fostering a vibrant alternative protein research and economy in California, but also putting forth climate solutions in our food systems. Our state is a leader in alternative protein innovation and home to the first major plant-based protein companies, the first-ever cultivated meat startups, and numerous inventive fermentation food companies. I look forward to holding informational hearings on the topic of growing this new economy and how it can support California’s climate and food sustainability goals,” said
Assemblymember Kalra
.
In 2022, Assemblymember Kalra championed a budget request for $5 million to the University of California to support and expand research and development efforts of alternative proteins. Researchers at campuses across the University of California system have been pursuing cutting-edge research in the field with funding from federal and private grants.
The alternative protein sector can help meet the growing global demand for protein while reducing climate impacts of the foodsystem, representing a third of GHG emissions globally. Fermentation, cell cultivation, and plant-based food manufacturing are inherent climate solutions requiring neither methane-emitting livestock nor the energy-intensive feed crops grown for them. In addition to climate emissions, alternative protein production also requires far less land and water and minimizes pollution.
###
Assemblymember Ash Kalra
represents California’s 25th Assembly District, which encompasses the majority of San José, including downtown and open space areas in southeast Santa Clara County. He was first elected in 2016, becoming the first Indian American to serve in the California Legislature in state history, and was re-elected to his fifth term in 2024. Assemblymember Kalra is the Chair of the Committee on Judiciary and also serves as a member on the Housing & Community Development, Labor & Employment, Natural Resources, and Utilities & Energy committees.