SACRAMENTO, CA
– Assemblywoman Pilar Schiavo’s
Click to Cancel (AB 2863)
legislation - putting money back in people’s pockets by making it easy to cancel unwanted subscriptions with just one-click - officially goes into effect today. The new law requires companies to offer a simple, online cancellation process for subscription services, cutting through deceptive tactics that have cost Californians hundreds of dollars each year.
“Families are paying more than ever just to get by – they shouldn't be losing money to subscription traps that keep them paying for things they no longer want or can’t afford,” said Assemblywoman Schiavo. “This law protects people’s wallets by making it easy to cancel online subscriptions with one click, just like signing up.”
Research shows that nearly 42% of consumers continue to pay for subscriptions they no longer use, costing them an average of $133 per month. Too many companies make it difficult or confusing to cancel, using tactics known as “dark patterns” to delay or prevent cancellations altogether. Click to Cancel ensures consumers can quickly and easily cancel services they don’t want or need — saving money and putting power back in their hands.
“From gym memberships to software subscriptions to wine clubs, consumers now have more control over their automatic subscriptions. You shouldn't have to endure endless stalling tactics to keep your money in your pocket, where it belongs,” said Robert Herrell, Executive Director of the Consumer Federation of California, the sponsor of the bill. “Thanks to Assemblywoman Schiavo’s leadership California now has the most comprehensive law in the nation when it comes to subscription services—ensuring consumers can get out of their subscriptions as easily as they got into them.”
Expanding Protections: Click to Cancel 2.0
Building on this progress, Assemblywoman Schiavo also announced new legislation this year – Click to Cancel 2.0 (AB 656) – which offers needed safety protections on social media platforms.
Under this new bill:
Social media companies must provide a clear, conspicuous “Delete My Account” button.
Companies are prohibited from using “dark patterns” to prevent or delay account deletion.
Deleting an account must also trigger the full deletion of the user’s personal data, restoring control to the user.
“Click to Cancel 2.0 is about more than convenience, it’s about digital safety” Assemblywoman Schiavo said. “People deserve to leave a platform and take their personal information with them, without being tricked or manipulated into staying.”
This expansion of the Click to Cancel is part of Schiavo’s broader efforts to reduce costs and improve safety, especially when navigating deceptive online business practices.
###
Assemblywoman Pilar Schiavo was elected to the California State Assembly in November of 2022 and re-elected in 2024 to represent the 40th Assembly District, representing the Northwest San Fernando Valley, Val Verde, Castaic and the Santa Clarita Valley. Upon her election, she was appointed as Assistant Majority Whip by the Speaker of the Assembly and now serves as Chair of the Assembly Committee on Military and Veterans Affairs. During her first term she brought back a record $93 million district investment in school and community safety, seniors meal programs, veteran housing, domestic violence services and creating local jobs. Prior to her election, Assemblywoman Schiavo was a Nurse Advocate and Small Business Owner who worked in the labor movement for more than 20 years. Throughout her career, Assemblywoman Schiavo helped deliver healthcare, including reproductive healthcare, to more than one million people. In the Northwest San Fernando Valley, she co-founded an organization that helped secure housing for Veterans experiencing homelessness, has delivered more than 50,000 meals to people in need, and increased resources to help keep our communities safe. Assemblywoman Schiavo lives in Chatsworth with her creative kid where they love to hike in the Santa Susana Mountains.