SACRAMENTO –
Assembly Bill 1154, authored by
Assemblymember Juan Carrillo (D- Palmdale)
in collaboration with California YIMBY, passed the Assembly Floor with bipartisan support. This passage marks an important step toward making it easier for California homeowners to build and rent small housing units. The bill seeks to bring greater parity between small Accessory Dwelling Units (ADUs) and Junior Accessory Dwelling Units (JADUs), helping increase the state’s housing supply while supporting low- and middle-income families.
“California needs more housing—and small units like ADUs and JADUs are an essential part of the solution,” said
Assemblymember Carrillo
. “This bill makes smart, targeted updates that will empower more homeowners to create affordable housing in their own communities. Adjusting JADU and ADU law creates more parity between the two. This will help incentivize homeowners to use these units as a tool to build wealth while also increasing the amount of housing units on the market. This is a win for both the homeowners and people looking to find affordable housing available throughout California.”
AB 1154 proposes two key updates to streamline housing development: it eliminates the owner-occupancy requirement for Junior Accessory Dwelling Units (JADUs) that have their own sanitation facilities, and exempts small Accessory Dwelling Units (ADUs) under 500 square feet from parking requirements—aligning them with existing exemptions for JADUs.
“California needs more housing, and AB 1154 is part of the solution. This bill streamlines the development of Accessory Dwelling Units and Junior Accessory Dwelling Units, cuts costs, and helps put more homes on the market,” said
Lieutenant Governor Eleni Kounalakis
. “I am proud to co-sponsor this bill and grateful to Assemblymember Juan Carrillo for his leadership in tackling our housing crisis.”
Between 2016 and 2022, over 80,000 ADUs were approved in California—a 15,000% increase. These units are helping ease the housing crisis by providing more options for renters while offering homeowners opportunities to build wealth, increase property value, and generate income. However, current law treats ADUs and JADUs inconsistently, often subjecting the smaller JADUs to more restrictive rules.
As co-sponsors in support of the bill,
California YIMBY CEO
,
Brian Hanlon
says, "Making it fast and easy for homeowners to build small apartments within their existing homes is one of the best ways to expand housing supply while providing urgently-needed, lower-cost homes for Californians. We applaud Assemblymember Carrillo for his commitment to helping California's homeowners be a part of the solution to our housing shortage and affordability crisis with AB 1154.”
The bill moves to the Senate and is now pending referral to the next policy committee. For more information contact Ruby Arceo at
Ruby.Arceo@asm.ca.gov
###