SACRAMENTO—Assemblymember James C. Ramos (D-San Bernardino) announced that two different organizations – California Nations Indian Gaming Association (CNIGA) and California Alliance of Child and Family Services (CACFS)—have honored him today with “Legislator of the Year” Awards.
“I am surprised and humbled by both recognitions,” Ramos said. “This is the first year CNIGA has presented this award, so it has special meaning for me, and working with CACFS to support families and children has been a privileged honor since my election to the legislature,” he added.
In a news release publicizing the recognition, CNIGA Chairman James Siva noted Ramos’s founding and chairing of the California Legislative Native American Caucus and his authorship of successful legislation to require California schools to incorporate teaching about Native American tribes history and culture. Sivia said criteria for the award includes “courage in defending Indian people and their interests, dedication to tribal sovereignty, protecting tribal economic interests, and excellence in educating the public and fellow legislators on tribal issues.”
Ramos and Senator Caroline Menjivar (D-San Fernando Valley) were named “in recognition of their outstanding advocacy for children, youth, and families.” Adrienne Shilton, CACFS Vice President for Public Policy & Strategy stated, “Assemblymember Ramos
has been a tireless advocate for children and families, with a particular focus on vulnerable youth. In 2024, he authored AB 2711, a bill sponsored by the California Alliance of Child and Family Services, which was signed into law in September 2024. AB 2711 establishes a public health framework for identifying and referring youth with substance use needs to community-based services, rather than suspending or expelling them from school. Assemblymember Ramos’s leadership has been pivotal in advancing policies that strengthen the public behavioral health system and provide youth with the tools they need to succeed.”
###
Assemblymember James C. Ramos proudly represents the 45th Assembly district that includes Fontana, Highland, Mentone, Redlands, Rialto and San Bernardino. He is the first and only California Native American serving in the state’s legislature. Ramos chairs the Assembly Budget Subcommittee #6 on Public Safety.