(SACRAMENTO, CA) –
Assemblymember Chris Ward (D-San Diego) introduced his fourth housing bill this session, Assembly Bill (AB) 474, the Home Share Act of 2025, to improve housing affordability and ease the cost-of-living crisis. The bill incentivizes and removes barriers for Californians in nonprofit home-sharing programs, which match homeowners with extra rooms to those seeking affordable housing while providing legal and conflict resolution support.
With a severe housing shortage and many underutilized bedrooms, home-sharing offers a cost-effective solution. AB 474 particularly benefits low-income older adults, helping them afford rising housing costs while allowing homeowners to supplement their income and renters to find affordable housing.
"California has a housing crisis, but we also have underutilized homes,”
said Assemblymember Ward.
“The Home-Sharing Act of 2025 offers a smart, low-cost solution to help seniors and low-income residents stay housed while increasing affordable rental opportunities. This bill provides key incentives to ensure that home-sharing is a viable and stable option for more Californians."
The Home-Sharing Act of 2025 introduces key provisions to make nonprofit home-sharing more accessible and beneficial for low-income homeowners and renters. The bill exempts low-income homeowners from paying income tax on rental earnings, ensures that home-sharing income does not affect eligibility for government assistance programs, strengthens tenant protections, and guarantees the right for home-sharers to have a caregiver move in if needed. These measures aim to expand affordable housing options while providing financial stability for participants.
“Assemblymember Ward is once again championing efforts to combat homelessness among older adults. While California faces a shortage of housing units, we have an abundance of available bedrooms. Assembly Bill 474 is a step forward in preventing homelessness by expanding the availability of bedrooms for rent through home-sharing programs, providing a valuable solution to this pressing issue,”
said
Jeannee Parker Martin, President & CEO, of LeadingAge California, the sponsors of the bill.
***For media inquiries, contact Anthony Reyes: Anthony.Reyes@asm.ca.gov***