Sacramento, CA -
Today,
Assemblymember Rick Chavez Zbur (D-Hollywood) and State Senator Ben Allen (D-Santa Monica)
, along with joint authors
Assemblymember Isaac Bryan (D-Los Angeles) and Assemblymember Sharon Quirk-Silva (D-Fullerton)
, and
Senator Caroline Menjivar (D-San Fernando Valley), Senator Sasha Renee Perez (D-Pasadena) and Senator Henry Stern (D-Los Angeles),
held a press conference uniting legislators, workers, small businesses, industry leaders and more behind the
California Film & TV Jobs Act, AB 1138 & AB 630.
The legislation directly responds to the growing threat of production flight, leading to significant job losses and economic impact across California. AB 1138 and SB 630 seek to reverse this trend by making California's tax credit program more competitive with other states and countries, supporting small businesses and thousands of union jobs tied to the entertainment industry.
Today's press conference featured a broad coalition of voices standing behind the California Film & TV Jobs Act, including:
Rebecca Rhine, President of the Entertainment Union Coalition and Western Regional Director of the Directors Guild of America
Alex Aguilar, Business Manager and Secretary-Treasurer of LiUNA! Local 724
Jason George, renowned film and television actor known for
Grey's Anatomy
,
Station 19
,
Eve
, and
Sunset Beach
Marco Flores, member of Local 80 and Anti-Recidivism Coalition
Jeska Lapin, owner of Jeska Films
Roberto Fatal, owner of Digital Curanderas Productions and Sundance nominee
Jennifer West, Sacramento Film Commissioner
Sally Forcier, producer at Forcier Casting & Productions and co-founder of Wild Filly Films
In late 2024, Governor Newsom announced a budget proposal to increase the State's incentive program from the current annual allocation of $330 million to $750 million, beginning on July 1, 2025. The authors have been working with the Entertainment Union Coalition – a multi-union alliance representing more than 165,000 entertainment workers – and other stakeholders to modernize the program. To enhance the effectiveness of the increase, AB 1138 makes modifications to the program's requirements, aiming to make California more competitive.
Key Provisions Include:
Raising the base tax credit rate from 20% to 35%
Maintaining tax uplifts in the current programs including the 5% uplift for filming outside the Los Angeles Zone
Expanding the definition of "Qualified Motion Picture" while retaining the $1 million minimum spending requirement per production to include 20-minute television shows, animation, and certain large-scale competition shows
Eliminating the 50% Ownership or 10-year-lease requirement for productions utilizing a certified sound stage in the Soundstage Film Tax Credit program
Increasing incentives for Independent Productions
Providing the California Film Commission with more flexibility to move tax credit dollars across different categories to meet current demands.
"California's film and television industry is at a breaking point — and AB 1138 and SB 630 are about saving good jobs and protecting the workers and small businesses who built this iconic industry," said
Asm. Rick Chavez Zbur (D-Hollywood)
. "Our goal is simple: make California's Film and TV Tax Credit program competitive again, bring back lost productions, and keep families working here at home. I am immensely grateful to my colleagues and to Governor Newsom for their efforts to fight for California jobs, California communities, and California's future."
"We know how economically impactful our entertainment industry is, not just for Los Angeles but for the state as a whole," said
Senator Ben Allen (D-Santa Monica)
. "It was great seeing this recognition recently through the strong support of committee members who represent regions across California. We all share a common goal as provided through SB 630 and AB 1138—bringing overdue support to a vital workforce which has seen production leave our state in droves over recent years."
"California's film and television industry has long been a driving force behind our economic success. It is a vital part of what helped us become the fourth-largest economy in the world," said
Assemblywoman Sharon Quirk-Silva (D-Fullerton)
. "I want to thank my legislative colleagues who have rallied around the support for this initiative in keeping California the heart of the entertainment world."
"My district is home to some of the world's largest studios, which brings jobs, tax revenue, artists, and groundbreaking innovation in the entertainment industry to Burbank and San Fernando Valley,"
said Senator Caroline Menjivar (D-San Fernando Valley)
. "It is also home to the workers, from food vendors to grips to electricians, that are behind the magic. California must secure the future of this industry in our state, and modernizing the Film & Tax credit program will ensure the jobs, operations, and the economic benefits they bring right here in California."
"We are here to advocate for the film industry in Hollywood. This industry is built up by set crews, editors, designers and thousands of local businesses," said
Senator Sasha Renée Pérez (D-Pasadena)
. "If we lose these productions, California's workers and our state's economy will suffer. That's why I am proud to coauthor SB 630 and AB 1138, which will strengthen California's Film and Television Tax Credit to save jobs, protect small businesses, and keep cameras rolling in California."
"As the son of a working actor on the big screen, I know the power of creativity and the profound impact the entertainment industry has on my community and district. Updating the California Film & TV Tax Credit program not only supports jobs and small businesses but ensures that the Golden State continues as the source of the most innovative and inspiring content," said
Senator Henry Stern (SD27-LA)
. "AB 1138 and SB 630 will help secure our legacy in the industry for generations to come, and I'm proud to stand with my colleagues to further strengthen my friends and neighbors who keep California CREATIVE!"
"The Entertainment Union Coalition represents over 165,000 skilled entertainment industry workers from all across California. It is not an overstatement to say we are at an inflection point with the future of California's most iconic industry at stake. Thousands of our members are currently without jobs; middle class union jobs that fuel the economy. And small businesses and local vendors that depend on the industry for their livelihoods are closing throughout California due to lack of production. The funding increase proposed by Governor Newsom and the program modifications in AB 1138 and SB 630 provide an essential lifeline we need to save our once thriving industry," said
Rebecca Rhine, Entertainment Union Coalition President, Associate National Executive Director/Western Executive Director, Directors Guild of America
. "We thank Governor Newsom for his foresight in proposing the expanded funding and Assemblymember Zbur and Senator Allen for their commitment to this effort."
"These bills will help us bring back not only work to California but the beauty of our craft that originates in this beautiful state," said
Marco Flores, Local 80 and Anti-Recidivism Coalition member
. "We need to make a change before it's too late."
"This film tax credit is about protecting good paying jobs and keeping them in California," said
Asm. Liz Ortega (D-San Leandro), chair of the Assembly Committee on Labor and Employment.
"At a time when our federal government is handing out pink slips, California is protecting paychecks."
"California has a proud history of partnering with industries like tech, auto and aerospace to grow our economy and protect workers," said
Senator Lola Smallwood-Cuevas (D-Los Angeles)
. "We must take the same approach with the film and television industry to keep homegrown jobs here. I authored SB 756 to support the expansion of the California Film & TV Tax Credit Program while ensuring that it comes with stronger transparency and accountability to workers and voters. This bill is about making sure our tax dollars not only create entertainment content, but build real careers and economic diversity in local communities. We can grow the industry and protect workers—all while being responsible stewards of California's resources."
"Hollywood is part of the soul of our state, but after the Eaton Fire, many in my district are facing job losses and community instability," said
Assemblymember John Harabedian (D-Pasadena).
"Thousands of workers and small businesses in Los Angeles rely on a steady flow of film and television production to survive. This legislation will expand union jobs, provide critical support for small businesses that serve the industry, and strengthen our economy by keeping productions here at home. Thank you to Assemblymember Zbur and Senator Allen for their leadership in protecting and growing California's entertainment industry."
"From humble beginnings over a century ago, the film and tv industry has grown into a global powerhouse that's essential to California's economy," said
Assemblymember Nick Schultz (D-Burbank)
. "By expanding and modernizing the tax credit, we're investing in a homegrown industry, our skilled and creative workforce, and countless small businesses beyond the studio gates."
"When people think of Hollywood, they often picture celebrities—but I think of the people in my community who work behind the scenes: set builders, camera operators, costume designers," said
Senator Suzette Valladares
(
R-Santa Clarita
).
"These are hardworking Californians who depend on local production to support their families. That's why it's so important we keep film and TV jobs in California—our policies need to protect this vital part of our economy and the people it employs."
"As both a first time feature filmmaker with the Sundance Film Institute, life-long Californian and film professor at Sacramento City College, this tax credit will help insure myself, my students can make work inspired by our communities at home in our communities for generations to come," said
Roberto Fatal,
Owner of Digital Curanderas Productions and Sundance Film Festival Nominee.
"It is critical to increase our state's tax incentives and keep the work in California, save jobs and inspire filmmakers to keep productions local," said
Sally Forcier of Forcier Casting & Productions and Co-Founder of Wild Filly Films
. "Our businesses have been hit hard by covid and a series of strikes, then the LA fires. I would love to see Northern California have its own allocation of funds as well."
"Last year Sacramento saw an enormous increase in economic impact due to a feature film that received a partial tax credit,  I want to emphasize that these tax credits benefit ALL of California, not just Los Angeles," said
Sacramento Film Commissioner and Film Liaisons in California Statewide (FLICS) member Jennifer West
. "We have seen firsthand the number of films that
almost
came to our cities but ultimately left the state for greater incentives. We've witnessed our local crew members leave their families for months at a time to work outside of California, and in many cases uproot their families and leave our cities altogether. Our local crews deserve good high-paying jobs right here in our state. That is why FLICS is in support of job bills AB 1138 and SB 630. We thank Assemblymember Zbur and Senator Allen for their leadership."
AB 1138 will be heard in the Assembly Revenue and Taxation Committee today at 2:30 p.m. You can find a link to the hearing at
https://arev.assembly.ca.gov
. Meanwhile, SB 630 is currently under consideration in the Senate Appropriations Committee.
Ben Allen represents the 24th State Senate District, which consists of the Westside, Hollywood, coastal South Bay, and Santa Monica Mountains communities of Los Angeles County.
Assemblymember Rick Chavez Zbur serves as the Democratic Caucus Chair for the California State Assembly and represents the 51st Assembly District, which includes Universal City, Hollywood, Hancock Park, West Hollywood, Beverly Hills, Westwood, West Los Angeles, Santa Monica, and other portions of Los Angeles.
CONTACTS:
Vienna Montague (Zbur) |
vienna.montague@asm.ca.gov
Ben Cheever (Allen) |
ben.cheever@sen.ca.gov