SACRAMENTO, CA
— Yesterday, Assemblywoman Pilar Schiavo took important action to stop sex traffickers and protect kids from pedophiles. Sex trafficking and sexual abuse of minors is a persistent issue in California, one that is personal to Schiavo. Schiavo detailed her experience as the victim of childhood sexual assault, including putting her own predator behind bars, previously in an op-Ed in the Santa Clarita Valley Signal.
Schiavo voted yesterday to support important amendments to AB 379 that aim to protect young people, including 16 and 17 year olds, from this type of violence and assault. While the bill is currently in the Appropriations Committee, it will reach the floor with additional protections.
“The Assembly has played a critical role in passing some of the toughest human trafficking laws in the country. Last year, I joined my colleagues in voting to make it a felony to traffic a minor and this year, we will continue to pass legislation that protects victims and keeps our kids safe,” said Schiavo. “As a survivor of sexual violence as a child - who worked to put my own predator behind bars, this issue is incredibly personal. I will always take action to protect other children from this type of violence and assault.”
Last year, the Legislature passed bipartisan legislation to increase penalties on trafficking and solicitation, including designating human trafficking of a minor as a serious felony and creating a felony for the crime of solicitation of a minor under the age of 16, or a minor under the age of 18 who is a victim of human trafficking. Assemblywoman Schiavo voted in support of both of these bills.
Under current law, it is already a felony to: solicit any minor who is a victim of human trafficking, contact a minor with the intent to commit a sexual offense, pay for and engage in sex with a minor, solicit a minor under the age of 16 in any circumstances, sexting with a minor, and more.
Public Safety Chair Nick Schultz will lead this effort, working closely with all stakeholders to ensure young people and victims of trafficking are protected and have the support they need, and those who perpetrate these crimes are adequately held accountable. Schiavo will be following these efforts closely to ensure our goal of protecting the most vulnerable is achieved.
###
Assemblywoman Pilar Schiavo was elected to the California State Assembly in November of 2022 and re-elected in 2024 to represent the 40th Assembly District, representing the Northwest San Fernando Valley, Val Verde, Castaic and the Santa Clarita Valley. Upon her election, she was appointed as Assistant Majority Whip by the Speaker of the Assembly and now serves as Chair of the Assembly Committee on Military and Veterans Affairs. Prior to her election, Assemblywoman Schiavo was a Nurse Advocate and Small Business Owner who worked in the labor movement for more than 20 years. Throughout her career, Assemblywoman Schiavo helped deliver healthcare, including reproductive healthcare, to more than one million people. In the Northwest San Fernando Valley, she co-founded an organization that helped secure housing for Veterans experiencing homelessness, has delivered more than 50,000 meals to people in need, and increased resources to help keep our communities safe. Assemblywoman Schiavo lives in Chatsworth with her creative kid where they love to hike in the Santa Susana Mountains.