SACRAMENTO, CA.
— Today,
Assemblymember Tasha Boerner
(
D
-
Encinitas
) introduced Assembly Bill (AB) 353, mandating that internet service providers make affordable home internet plans available to California residents. This legislation comes at a pivotal time as roughly three million California households lost federal support through the Affordable Connectivity (ACP) benefit in 2024. According to a recent report from the
Benton Institute for Broadband & Society
, affordability remains a major barrier to broadband internet access.
“Right now, families are struggling to afford essential services, like the internet. Households in our state don’t have support to pay for a basic home internet service plan. We are talking about kids not being able to do homework at home, parents having to go to libraries to apply for jobs, and people not having access to do basic things, like telehealth,” stated
Assemblymember Tasha Boerner
. “As the Chair of the Communications & Conveyance Committee, I have supported legislation to address broadband affordability, but none of those bills have been signed into law. AB 353 will ensure all California’s families can connect to the internet.”
“We applaud Assemblymember Boerner for introducing AB 353, which aims to establish a clear path for every Californian to have a fast, affordable, and reliable internet option,” said
Shayna Englin
,
Director of the California Community Foundation Digital Equity Initiative
, on behalf of the California Alliance for Digital Equity (CADE). “The introduction of this bill offers the legislature an opportunity to swiftly respond to the cost-of-living crisis plaguing residents and reduce their financial burdens long-term. We look forward to working with the Assemblymember to develop and pass the legislation.”
“Finding the right solution for California will require thoughtful engagement and collaboration from all sides of this issue,”
said
Assemblymember Tasha Boerner
. “It will be one of my priorities to work collaboratively with my colleagues, consumer advocates, industry stakeholders, and the Governor’s office to ensure we get this solution to the finish line.”
###
Assemblymember Tasha Boerner represents the 77th District, which encompasses Carlsbad, Encinitas, Solana Beach, Del Mar, Coronado and the coastal communities of La Jolla south to Downtown San Diego. You can learn more about Assemblymember Boerner at
a77.asmdc.org
,
Facebook
,
Instagram
, or
Twitter/X
.