SACRAMENTO—Amid federal tariffs and cuts to key American institutions, Assemblymember Dr. Darshana Patel (D-San Diego County) voted to advance California’s 2025-26 budget, which contains core priorities she championed and supported.
The California Legislature has held 67 budget hearings this year to deliver for Californians as well as possible. The budget passed by the Legislature this week preserves $13 billion in the Rainy Day Fund while including key wins for Assembly District 76 regarding public safety, education, healthcare, economic mobility, and tax relief.
“This budget reflects the needs of District 76—safe communities, strong public schools, access to health care, and responsible stewardship of our finances,” said Assemblymember Dr. Patel. “We had to make many difficult decisions this year, but I’m encouraged that our community’s priorities to protect core services and lay the foundation for future opportunity have been incorporated in the Legislature’s budget bill.”
However, the federal government’s actions have made a challenging fiscal year even more difficult. Threats to cut higher education awards and grants are attacks on Californian upward mobility, workforce development, and the nation’s entire innovation economy. Rolling back Medicaid and safety net programs jeopardizes the lives of our community members. Tariffs have led to economic uncertainty and increased costs.
The state’s budget seeks to address financial challenges that have persisted for the past three years. As a new Assemblymember, Dr. Darshana Patel has sought fiscal responsibility while ensuring that our San Diego County community receives access to key programs and funding streams.
Investing in Public Safety and Victim Services
: Assemblymember Patel supported $100 million to implement Proposition 36, aimed at reducing crime and recidivism through behavioral health services, pretrial support, public defenders, and judicial resources. It also provides $110 million for California’s Victims of Crime Act program, which funds critical services like counseling, shelter, and legal assistance for survivors of violence, abuse, and trauma.
Protecting Education Funding at Every Level
: Assemblymember Patel led a successful effort to reduce the Governor’s proposed cuts to California’s public university system. She also supported increased K–12 investment, including raising per-pupil Proposition 98 funding to over $25,000, plus a 2.3% cost-of-living adjustment for public schools.
Supporting Families and Economic Mobility
: To help Californians weather hardship and build toward a stable future, Assemblymember Patel championed expanded funding for food banks and supported budget allocations to child care access, affordable housing, and the Homeless Housing Assistance and Prevention (HHAP) program, which funds services that keep families housed and employed. These programs are crucial for preventing homelessness and facilitating upward mobility.
Protecting Access to Health Care
: Patel worked alongside the California Women’s Legislative Caucus to successfully block the Governor’s proposed cuts to Planned Parenthood and community health clinics, helping ensure continued access to reproductive and preventative health care. She led efforts to preserve funding for In-Home Supportive Services (IHSS) and dental care for low-income Californians.
Providing Tax Relief for Veterans
: Assemblymember Patel is the joint author of AB 53, which provides tax relief for veterans and the family members of deceased service members. Thanks to her and others’ advocacy on this policy, the tax relief was included in the budget. This honors the service of veterans and helps retain a highly skilled workforce, strengthening California’s businesses and communities.
“Budgets are statements of priorities, and this year’s budget puts Californians first while being deliberately fiscally responsible,” said Assemblymember Patel. “By protecting services and investing in what matters, we’re helping Californians not just survive, but succeed.”