SACRAMENTO, CA
– Today, the California State Assembly passed Assembly Concurrent Resolution 10 (ACR 10), introduced by
Assemblymember Mark González (D – Los Angeles)
, which proclaims January 13, 2025, as Korean American Day in California.
Korean American Day commemorates the arrival of the first large wave of Korean immigrants to the United States on January 13, 1903. Today, the number of people of Korean ancestry living in the United States has grown to over two million. ACR 10 honors the invaluable cultural, economic, and social contributions of Korean Americans, especially in California, which is home to over 500,000 Korean Americans.
The full resolution is available
here
. The presentation of the resolution is available
here
.
"Today, we celebrate the rich heritage and enduring contributions of Korean Americans in our state," said
Assemblymember González
. "As the Assemblymember representing Koreatown in Los Angeles – home to the largest Korean American community in the United States – I am proud to champion this resolution and I am committed to ensuring this community receives the support and recognition it deserves."
"On behalf of the Korean American Federation of Los Angeles, I commend Assemblymember Mark Gonzalez on the passage of ACR 10 to recognize Korean American Day. Los Angeles is home to the largest ethnic Korean diaspora in the United States and ACR 10 is a testament to the growth and resilience of the Korean American community," said
Robert Ahn, President of the Korean American Federation of Los Angeles
. "I am proud to advocate on behalf of the Korean American community and look forward to our partnership with Assemblymember González in the New Year."
"I am so grateful to Assemblymember González for recognizing the contributions of the Korean American community and to the State for proclaiming January 13 as Korean American Day," said
Connie Chung Joe, CEO of Asian Americans Advancing Justice Southern California (AJSOCAL)."
I am a proud Korean American born to immigrant parents who both served in the US Army, practiced as health care professionals, sponsored their relatives, and raised their children in this country because they believed deeply in the American Dream. This day celebrates their story and the more than two million other Korean Americans here in the United States."
"We are thankful for the first large wave of Koreans immigrants that arrived to the United States on January 13, 1903. Their bravery and legacy have resounded through the generations of Korean Americans that include citizens, students, business owners, leaders in all industries as well as elected officials in service of our country," said
Eunice Song, Executive Director of the Korean American Coalition Los Angeles (KACLA)
. It is an honor to celebrate this day 122 years later and we look forward to making a greater impact each day."
"As a proud fellow representative of Koreatown, I am honored to join my colleague in recognizing Korean American Day in California," said
Senator María Elena Durazo (D-Los Angeles).
"Through this resolution, we celebrate the invaluable contributions the Korean American community has made to our state, from multi-level shopping centers, to coffee shops and Korean BBQ restaurants. I thank the people, and the civic/cultural activist organizations."-
"Today, we honor the courage and sacrifices of the first Korean immigrants who journeyed across the ocean in search of a better life," said
Assemblymember Sharon Quirk-Silva (D-Fullerton)
. "From those humble beginnings, the Korean American community has flourished, enriching every facet of the California Dream. This day stands as a testament to the power of honoring our heritage while embracing the shared values that unite us as Californians and Americans."
Assemblymember Mark González is the Assembly Majority Whip. He represents the 54th Assembly District composed of the cities of Los Angeles, Commerce, Montebello, and Vernon.
CONTACT:
Jaspreet Johl;
Jaspreet.Johl@asm.ca.gov
; (916) 335-8871