San Marcos, CA — As the rising cost of living continues to challenge working families across California, Assemblymember José Luis Solache joined Assemblymember Dr. Darshana Patel for a landmark informational hearing on affordability, economic pressure, and solutions rooted in community resilience.
The hearing, held at California State University San Marcos, marked the latest stop on the California Pocketbook Tour and was convened by the Assembly Committee on Economic Development, Growth, and Household Impact (EDGHI), which Assemblymember Solache chairs.
Lawmakers gathered expert testimony from regional leaders in education, workforce development, small business, and nonprofit sectors to better understand the day-to-day realities of San Diegans facing economic strain.
"I'm proud to join Assemblymember Dr. Patel on this stop of the California Pocketbook Tour," said Assemblymember Solache. "Her leadership - both in her district and across the state - has been instrumental in supporting working families and strengthening California's economy. This event is about meeting people where they are - with real tools, real information, and real support. In a time when communities are feeling the pressure of rising costs, it's more important than ever to connect Californians with the resources they need to not just get by, but to thrive."
Two panels titled San Diego's Economic Landscape and Resilient by Design featured powerful insights from local academic researchers, entrepreneurs, nonprofit directors, and community advocates. Testimonies highlighted both the mounting pressures families are facing and the innovative solutions already in motion across the region.
Assemblymember Solache emphasized the importance of amplifying local voices to inform bold, responsive policy. "Behind every dollar stretched too thin is a family doing their best. That's who we're here for."
The California Pocketbook Tour continues throughout the state in the coming months, bringing the Legislature into local communities to better understand and respond to the real cost pressures Californians face every day.
Assemblymember Solache represents California's 62nd Assembly District, which includes the communities of Lynwood, South Gate, Walnut Park, Huntington Park, Maywood, Paramount, Lakewood, and Bellflower.
CONTACT:
Chris.Mateo@asm.ca.gov, (916) 317-9468