SACRAMENTO, CA –
Assemblywoman Esmeralda Soria’s medical education bills passed the Assembly Higher Education Committee today. Assembly Bill (AB) 1400 directs the Chancellor of the California Community Colleges to establish a pilot program to allow up to 15 community college districts to offer a Bachelor of Science in nursing degree. Additionally, AB 58 requests the University of California (UC) report to the Legislature by August 31, 2026 the financial requirements necessary to expand on the existing successful UC San Francisco (UCSF) medical education program at UC Merced and transition to a fully independent medical school operated by UC Merced.
AB 1400
“In order to meet our nursing workforce needs and extend these career opportunities to Californians throughout the state, we must expand the role of our community college system,”
said Assemblywoman Soria.
“AB 1400 will take the first steps in this process by allowing a limited number of campuses to expand their nursing programs to offer Bachelors of Science in nursing degrees. This will expand the access and affordability of these degrees and demonstrate how these offerings might be expanded further to additional community college campuses.”
California’s current healthcare workforce development system is not equipped to handle the growing nursing needs of the state, especially in disadvantaged communities in more rural parts of the state. While California’s Community College system does offer associates degrees in nursing, the needs of the healthcare workforce more frequently demand a bachelor’s degree.
“This bill addresses and fixes the leak in the nursing education pipeline—keeping talented, committed students on track toward the careers our healthcare system urgently needs,”
said Dr. Carole Goldsmith, Chancellor for the State Center Community College District
. “Community colleges are ready to deliver high-quality, affordable BSN programs that meet the moment. By investing in all our public education systems, including community colleges, we can grow the healthcare workforce California needs, while keeping students local, lowering debt, and improving health outcomes in the communities we serve.”
AB 58
Among California’s UC campuses, UC Merced is uniquely positioned to serve a population of students from rural areas in the San Joaquin Valley that have been historically isolated, both geographically and socioeconomically, from the rest of the state.
“Located in the heart of the Central Valley, UC Merced serves a disproportionate number of first-generation college students, many of whom also come from low-income households,”
said Assemblywoman Soria
. “This has allowed UC Merced to become a key step for these students to pull themselves out of poverty and serve as the next generation of educated professionals in the Central Valley. One key workforce in the Central Valley depending on these graduates is in the field of healthcare. AB 58 provides a roadmap for UC Merced to accommodate a fully independent medical school, something that is desperately needed for our Central Valley.”
AB 58 would request the UC to build on its successful management and development of the medical education offerings at UC Merced by reporting to the Legislature on the projected financial needs to open and begin fully utilizing the UC Merced Medical Education Building to support the UCSF educational pathway program and transition to a fully independent medical school.
Both AB 1400 and AB 58 will be heard next in the Assembly Appropriations Committee. For the latest information on our legislative bill package, please visit our website and social media accounts.
Facebook:
@Assemblymember Esmeralda Soria
Instagram:
@asmesmeraldasoria
BlueSky:
@esmeraldasoria.bsky.social
# # #
Assemblywoman Esmeralda Soria represents the 27th Assembly District which includes communities in Fresno, Madera, and Merced counties.