(Altadena, CA) - Assemblymember John Harabedian (D–Pasadena)
, in partnership with the Eaton Fire Survivors Network, held a
press conference
today, Monday, August 25
th
, calling on the California Department of Insurance (CDI) to take immediate action to protect wildfire survivors and ensure insurance companies comply with state law.
“Our responsibility is clear: to protect survivors, give them the time and resources to rebuild their home and their lives, and ensure they can do so with security and peace of mind. That’s why I am leading this effort - calling on the California Department of Insurance to act swiftly and decisively, enforce the law, expedite claims, and provide every protection available - so families can recover with dignity and hope for the future,” said
Assemblymember John Harabedian (D-Pasadena).
Assemblymember Harabedian underscored the urgency of reforms to:
Expedite the State Farm Market Conduct Exam
Guarantee smoke coverage under the FAIR Plan
Enforce California law to keep families housed
Require transparency in loss estimates
Make CDI’s complaint process transparent
The press conference also highlighted AB 238 (Mortgage Forbearance), legislation authored by Assemblymember Harabedian that allows disaster-impacted homeowners to pause mortgage payments for up to one year while they recover and rebuild.
“We paid our premiums faithfully for decades, trusting insurers to protect us. Now they’re using illegal delays and denials to profit from our pain. Families are maxing out credit cards, draining savings, and living in contaminated homes. We call on the California Department of Insurance to stand with survivors, not with the insurers breaking the law”
said
Joy Chen, Co-Founder and CEO, Eaton Fire Survivors Network.
“For months, I have been leading the call to launch an investigation into the hundreds of insurance complaints by Eaton Fire victims. These residents should not be pushed aside during their greatest time of need,” said
Senator Sasha Renée Pérez
. “Insurance companies should not be allowed to raise rates before we get answers into how they are treating their policyholders following this disaster. I will continue to fight alongside my constituents for the fair and timely resolution of their insurance claims.”
“The Eaton and Palisades fires have caused devastation in the lives of hundreds of California families. While we cannot undo what nature has done, we can attempt to ease the pain of those suffering from nature’s wrath,” said
Assemblymember Jacqui Irwin.
“AB 238 minimizes the financial impact through temporary mortgage relief and AB 493 assures victims that banks are required to pay interest on money deposited as a result of insurance payouts. In addition to these legislative efforts, we need the Department of Insurance to step up and enforce the law to protect victims from further harm caused by insurers. Those of us representing fire-impacted communities are committed and will continue to address these issues as they arise. Thank you, Assemblymember Harabedian, for being a voice for these victims when they need it most.”
“The Eaton Fire devastated residents in my district and exposed glaring issues in the insurance market,”
said
Supervisor Kathryn Barger
. “Too many continue to face undue claims delays, underpayments, and denials that compound their hardship and loss. Continued vigilance in oversight and enforcement are vital, and new reforms are needed from our state regulators and legislature. I applaud Assemblymember Harabedian’s leadership and partnership to pass critical legislation on this important issue.”
“
Behind every delayed insurance claim is a family forced to wait in limbo. Survivors of the Eaton Fire deserve to be treated as people, not numbers. We’re asking the Department of Insurance to stand with Altadena and NOT with insurers to deliver justice for those who’ve already lost so much”
said
Altadena Town Council Chair Victoria Knapp.
These reforms, together with AB 238, are intended to unlock billions in delayed insurance payouts and deliver immediate relief to wildfire survivors across California. Watch the full press conference
here.
#####
Assemblymember John Harabedian represents the 41st District composed of the cities of La Ca
ñ
ada Flintridge, Pasadena, Altadena, Sierra Madre, Monrovia, Bradbury, San Dimas, La Verne, Claremont, Upland, Rancho Cucamonga, Oak Hills, Pi
ñ
on Hills and Phelan.