Assemblymember Rick Chavez Zbur introduced AB 309, a bill maintaining pharmacists’ discretion to provide sterile syringes to adults without a prescription.
SACRAMENTO, CA –
Democratic Caucus Chair and Assemblymember Rick Chavez Zbur (D-Hollywood) introduced a new bill, AB 309, to combat the spread of HIV, viral hepatitis and other bloodborne pathogens. AB 309, sponsored by the California Pharmacists Association, the Health Officers Association of California, the Drug Policy Alliance, and the San Francisco AIDS Foundation, is part of a multifaceted approach to protect public health.
California first began allowing local governments to authorize pharmacies to sell syringes to adults in 2004. After twenty years, extensive research and data collection has proven time and time again that increased access to sterile syringes reduces transmission rates and prevents needless deaths. AB 309 will empower pharmacists to continue furnishing sterile syringes at their discretion and allows adults to continue possessing syringes for personal use without a prescription.
"California has been a leader in advancing innovative public health policies, and AB 309 reflects our commitment to science-based strategies that save lives,"
Assemblymember Zbur
said. "By eliminating unnecessary barriers to accessing sterile syringes, we can reduce the spread of HIV and viral hepatitis, protect vulnerable populations, and reduce health care costs."
"Pharmacists play a vital, often underappreciated role in public health, particularly through harm reduction, disease prevention, and patient education," said
Susan Bonilla, CEO, California Pharmacists Association.
"Allowing pharmacists to continue to sell syringes without a prescription, while also providing counseling on drug treatment access, HIV and hepatitis C testing, and safe sharps disposal, is an effective strategy to address key health challenges. Pharmacists are often the most accessible healthcare providers in underserved communities, offering critical education and support for individuals seeking resources for addiction recovery and disease prevention. By empowering pharmacists to provide these services, we can improve health outcomes and create safer, healthier communities."
"California's health officers know that preventing the spread of disease is far better than waiting for a cure," said
Kat DeBurgh, Executive Director, Health Officers Association of California.
"This bill will keep our communities safe and will prevent the spread of HIV, viral hepatitis, and other diseases of public health concern."
"For decades research has shown that providing sterile injection supplies to people who inject drugs prevents transmission of HIV/AIDS and other infectious diseases, and we know that providing sterile supplies helps build connections to care, including substance use disorder treatment," said
Grey Gardener, California State Director, Drug Policy Alliance.
"This bill costs taxpayers nothing, promotes health, and prevents harm."
"San Francisco AIDS Foundation is proud to be a co-sponsor," said
Tyler TerMeer, PhD, CEO of SFAF.
"For decades, our organization has been at the forefront of initiatives to prevent the transmission of HIV, viral hepatitis, and other infectious diseases by ensuring access to sterile syringes. These efforts have saved countless lives and prevented significant outbreaks in communities at heightened risk for HIV transmission here in San Francisco. We fully support these and other harm reduction measures that allow people to access the resources and supplies they need to maintain their health and are committed to advocating for their expansion."
AB 309 will be referred to policy committee in the coming weeks.
Assemblymember  Rick Chavez Zbur serves as the Democratic Caucus Chair for the  California State Assembly and represents the 51st Assembly District,  which includes Universal City, Hollywood, Hancock Park, West  Hollywood, Beverly Hills, Westwood, West Los Angeles, Santa Monica,  and other portions of Los Angeles.
CONTACT:
Vienna Montague, (916) 319-2051,
Vienna.Montague@asm.ca.gov