Sacramento —
California Assembly Speaker
Robert Rivas
was recently awarded the first annual
President’s Medal
from
San José State University (SJSU)
for his dedication to public service and advocacy to expand educational opportunities for students from diverse backgrounds.
The President’s Medal, one of five inaugural
Distinguished Alumni Awards
, recognizes individuals who have made a profound impact in their field and uplifted the SJSU community.
A lifelong Central Coast resident, Speaker Rivas earned his Master’s in Public Administration from SJSU in 2011. SJSU honored him.
“This institution means so much to me,” Speaker Rivas said. “Education shapes lives, and I’ve seen firsthand how access to quality education can open doors and uplift entire communities. I’m proud to support opportunities that help students achieve their dreams and strengthen California’s future.”
This year, Rivas was honored alongside fellow distinguished SJSU alumni:
Judge Robert R. Rigsby ’83
, Associate Judge of the Superior Court of the District of Columbia
Edward Oates
, co-founder of Oracle Corporation
Dave ’63 & Bette ’67 Loomis
, longtime philanthropists and San Jose community leaders
Janine Pelosi ’06
, former Chief Marketing Officer of Zoom Video Communications
Rivas’s recognition comes after he recently received
the
Distinguished Service Award
from the
Sacramento State Alumni Association
, highlighting his leadership in state government and dedication to public policy. As both a
Sac State and SJSU alumnus
, Rivas has worked extensively on policies to improve access to education, affordable housing, and economic opportunities for Californians.
As Speaker of the California State Assembly, Rivas has been a strong proponent of public higher education, advocating for additional resources for California’s most vulnerable students. His personal journey—from growing up in a farmworker community to leading one of the country’s most influential legislative bodies—serves as an example of how education can change lives.
With this latest recognition from SJSU, Rivas joins a distinguished group of alumni who have turned their education into a force for change.
“This honor is deeply personal for me,” Speaker Rivas said. “It’s living proof of the opportunities education provided to me. My journey from a farmworker community to the Speaker’s office is a testament to the transformative power of learning, and I’m deeply committed to using my office to open doors for the next generation of Californians striving for a better future.”
###
For additional information, please contact:
Speaker Robert Rivas Press Secretary, Cynthia.Moreno@asm.ca.gov.
Speaker of the Assembly Robert Rivas represents California’s 29th Assembly District, which includes all of San Benito County and portions of Monterey, Santa Cruz, and Santa Clara Counties. For a full biography of Speaker Rivas, click
here
.