Sacramento, CA-
Assemblymember Rhodesia Ransom proudly congratulates
Alejandra Garibay Ordaz
and
Julissa Nuñez
, two exceptional students from Stockton, for being selected as recipients of the prestigious Women in California Leadership (WiCL) Minerva Scholarship.
The Minerva Scholarship program was established by Women in California Leadership to support the advancement of women in the State of California. Launched in 2015, the foundation was established with the purpose of empowering women and enhancing the lives of women and girls. The foundation provides annual scholarships to select women of promise in order to help them achieve their educational objectives.
“I’m impressed by the drive in our youth in San Joaquin County and I’m proud of the overwhelming number of applications my office received.” said Assemblymember Ransom. “I’ve seen firsthand how advocacy, community involvement, and adequate funding can make a real difference in a student’s ability to learn and thrive. I am so grateful to help provide these opportunities for our rising leaders.”
Alejandra Garibay Ordaz,
a recent graduate from Edison High School and
an incoming first-year student at UC Berkeley, was recognized for her volunteer work at a local animal shelter and a friend’s church food pantry. Her lived experiences, including spending part of her life in Mexico, have shaped her desire to lead with compassion and create spaces where everyone feels seen, heard, and valued. Alejandra is currently interning with the American Chemical Society.
Julissa Nuñez
, who will attend Point Loma Nazarene University this fall after graduating from St. Mary’s High School, was recognized for her strong academic performance and deep commitment to service across the district. In addition to maintaining a 4.0 GPA, she has volunteered with Changeist, El Concilio, Campus Ministry, Drill/Dance, Theater, and more. Julissa currently serves on the Stockton Service Corps Youth Council and plans to pursue a career in social policy and advocacy.
####