Sacramento, CA – Assemblymember Rhodesia Ransom is proud to recognize Alexis Wilbur as Assembly District 13’s 2025 Woman of the Year for her dedication to protecting and empowering survivors of abuse. Alexis will be honored at the California Legislative Women’s Caucus Woman of the Year Floor Ceremony on March 10, 2025, at the State Capitol.
“Alexis Wilbur’s leadership and relentless advocacy have transformed the lives of countless survivors in San Joaquin County,” said Assemblymember Ransom. “Through her work with the Family Justice Center, she has been a champion for the most vulnerable members of our community, ensuring they have the resources and support to heal and rebuild.”
As the Program Manager for the San Joaquin County District Attorney’s Office-led Family Justice Center, Alexis has strengthened partnerships among government agencies, nonprofits, and law enforcement to provide trauma-informed support for victims of domestic violence, human trafficking, sexual assault, child abuse, elder abuse, and stalking. Alexis also serves on the Executive Committee of the California Family Justice Network, helping expand Family Justice Centers statewide.
Alexis’ background as a former probation officer has fueled her passion for justice, particularly in addressing Adverse Childhood Experiences (ACEs) and breaking cycles of violence. Nominators described her as “a true champion for justice” and “a tireless advocate who goes above and beyond.”
The Woman of the Year recognition is part of Women’s History Month, an annual celebration recognizing women’s contributions to California’s progress and innovation. Assemblywoman Rhodesia Ransom received over twenty nominations from her district and Alexis Wilbur rose to the top as a resilient advocate for communities in need.
In addition to the State Capitol ceremony, Assemblymember Ransom will host a local event later this month to honor all nominees from District 13 and celebrate their invaluable contributions to the community.
####