SACRAMENTO
— Assemblymember Patrick Ahrens (D-Silicon Valley) has selected the Asian Pacific American Leadership Institute (APALI) as the 2025 California Nonprofit of the Year for Assembly District 26.
Assemblymember Patrick Ahrens said,
“As a proud graduate of their Civic Leadership Program, I am honored to recognize the Asian Pacific American Leadership Institute as the District 26 Nonprofit of the Year for their deeply impactful work building a pipeline of civic and political leaders.
California’s greatest strength is found in our many diverse communities that create a mosaic of people with innovative ideas to power the 4
th
largest economy on the planet, but our growth relies on continuing to unlock this potential through empowerment of our many communities. I am grateful for APALI’s continued work to develop civic-minded leaders and that is why I am so proud to recognize their organization and founder Dr. Michael Chang for this transformative work.”
This is the 10th year of the California Nonprofit of the Year initiative, a state-wide effort honoring the critical role nonprofit organizations play in California. Each year, state legislators choose a nonprofit from their district to be honored.
APALI was founded in 1997 by Dr. Michael Chang, the first person of color to serve as mayor of the City of Cupertino, to address the acute need to develop political and civic leaders. APALI has trained more than 2,000 leaders, operates numerous programs including their Board Leadership Academy, Civic Leadership Program, Student Leadership Academy for Young Adults (SLAY), and counts more than 500 active program alumni in the APALI Alumni Association.
“We are deeply honored and grateful for this recognition and affirmation of our mission and work. APALI is proud to be part of Assembly District 26 and particularly proud that so many of our graduates are in leadership positions. APALI’s work to educate, empower, and elevate leaders who are culturally competent on AANHPI issues is more important than ever as the AANHPI population in the area and California grows,” said Dr. Michael Chang, Founder and Executive Director of APALI.
“We are grateful for the work of the Asian Pacific American Leadership Institute and want to extend our congratulations for this well-deserved recognition,” said Geoff Green, CEO of the California Association of Nonprofits (CalNonprofits), the sponsor for this initiative. “Nonprofits provide critical services, advocate for our most vulnerable neighbors, and enrich the lives of all Californians. From the childcare program to the soccer team, from the art class to the health clinic, and from the community organizer to the animal shelter, nonprofits make our communities stronger”.
The recognition program, which coalesces with an annual awards luncheon on May 21, 2025 at the Capitol, is sponsored by CalNonprofits in partnership with the state Senate and Assembly Select Committees on the Nonprofit Sector. CalNonprofits, the leading policy voice for California’s nonprofit sector, focuses on advocacy, education, and research to build a more powerful and politically engaged nonprofit network across the state.
###
Assemblymember Patrick Ahrens
represents the Silicon Valley in the California State Assembly for District 26. He serves on the Assembly Committees on Budget, Business and Professions, Communications and Conveyance, Rules, Transportation, and Budget Subcommittee No. 2 on Human Services. Assemblymember Ahrens is the Co-Chair of the California Legislative Technology & Innovation Caucus, and a member of the California Legislative Jewish and Bay Area Caucuses.
Related Files
File
5-22-2025_asm_ahrens_apali_non-profit_oty_advisory.pdf