SACRAMENTO, CA
— Today, Assemblymember Chris Ward (D–San Diego), joined by legislative leaders and civil rights advocates, held a press conference at the California State Capitol to unveil AB 322, the
California Location Privacy Act
. The bill would establish first-in-the-nation protections to restrict the sale and misuse of Californians’ precise location data by private companies and data brokers.
With the rapid growth of the location data industry, tech companies are quietly harvesting and selling detailed information about where people go—from protests and political gatherings to reproductive health clinics, places of worship, and shelters. Recent reports have revealed that federal agencies, including ICE, have purchased this data to conduct surveillance and detain individuals—sidestepping legal safeguards and public accountability.
“No Californian should have their daily movements tracked, sold, or exploited just for going about their lives,” said Assemblymember Ward. “Whether you're commuting to work, visiting a doctor, or dropping your kids off at school, your location data should remain private. AB 322 draws a clear line—it puts the safety and privacy of everyday Californians first.”
“AB 322 is just common sense. It says your personal information—where you travel, who you live with, what health care you receive—shouldn’t be sold off or handed to immigration enforcement,” said Assemblymember Cecilia Aguiar-Curry (D–Winters). “We’ve heard reports of data brokers selling flight data to ICE and people fearing deportation just for going to the doctor. This bill puts clear rules in place to keep your data private and says to every Californian, especially our most vulnerable, we’ve got your back.”
Assemblymember Liz Ortega (D-San Leandro) underscored the urgency of the bill, stating, “At a time when we are seeing ICE raids tear families apart across California—mothers, fathers, children kidnapped—AB 322 is about protecting our communities from surveillance and abuse. It ensures that corporations and the federal government can’t weaponized our personal information to go after our community members and taxpayers. It is for that reason that I am proud to support this bill.”
“We applaud Assemblymember Ward for championing this vital legislation and urge lawmakers to pass AB 322 without delay,” said Matt Schwartz of Consumer Reports one of the bills co-sponsors. “Location data is deeply personal—it can expose visits to clinics, rallies, or places of worship—and it's increasingly being misused. Stopping its sale is a key step to protect consumer privacy.”
Ward was joined in support by Majority Leader Cecilia Aguiar-Curry, and members of the Latino, API, and Women’s Caucuses, including Assemblymembers Mike Fong, and Liz Ortega. They were joined by key policy and advocacy voices from Consumer Reports, CITED (Coalition for Inclusive Tech Equity and Democracy), and Asian Americans Advancing Justice – Southern California.
The Federal Trade Commission has filed multiple complaints in recent years against data brokers for selling billions of location data points, yet Congress has failed to enact meaningful national standards. AB 322 seeks to fill that gap by ensuring California leads with strong, enforceable consumer protections.