SACRAMENTO, CA
– Assemblywoman Esmeralda Soria’s bill AB 721, which establishes a Huron Hawk Conservancy in a limited region north of the City of Huron, has passed the Natural Resources Committee.
“California has a rich and prominent history of wildlife conservation. Leading the nation in efforts to protect the natural environment and ensuring equitable access for all,”
said Soria.
“A hallmark of these efforts has been through the establishment of conservancies, which work towards the protection of local wildlife, rehabilitation of the environment, and the creation of open spaces and parks for local communities. This is why I’m proud to author the Huron Hawk Conservancy Act, which seeks to establish a new conservancy in the San Luis River Detention Basin.”
The San Luis River Detention Basin is a 3,000 acre plot of unused land north of the city of Huron. Historically, the land was used for farm land but now remains vacant. This land is home to a multitude of flora and fauna and presents an incredible opportunity for ecological and recreational benefits for the region.
“The Huron Hawk Conservancy Act is vital to ensuring the creation of open green spaces that support physical and mental well-being. This bill seeks to foster the rehabilitation of our local environment to combat drought, and enhance carbon sequestration for climate resilience
,” said Rey León, Executive Director for the Latino Equity, Advocacy & Policy Institute.
“It’s a powerful chance to advance social, economic, environmental, and climate justice—creating green spaces not only for people, but also as sanctuaries for California’s sensitive and endangered species.”
While many local groups have expressed interest in conducting projects that improve the site and provide environmental, educational, and recreational benefits to the region, there is no central entity to coordinate projects or collect and distribute funding. While a conservancy would be ideal to fulfill this role, no existing conservancy contains this site in its jurisdiction.
AB 721 would create the Huron Hawk Conservancy whose jurisdiction would cover a 3,000 acre plot of land outside the cities of Huron and Fresno. This conservancy would facilitate the protection of habitat in addition to creating an accessible recreation space for the local community by directing public and private dollars donated to the conservancy to projects supporting those goals.
The Conservancy would have a board with members representing the local governments in the Huron and Fresno area, ensuring local input on the activities of the Conservancy. AB 721, through the creation of the Huron Hawk Conservancy will promote equitable access to a healthy environment, and accessible recreational spaces in a region of the state that has been traditionally underserved.
# # #
Assemblywoman Esmeralda Soria represents the 27th Assembly District which includes communities in Fresno, Madera, and Merced counties.