This weekend in Los Angeles, Speaker Robert Rivas and a delegation of 14 California Assembly members met with firefighters and officials to discuss how to further assist emergency response efforts, and to fast-track recovery from the devastating and deadly wildfires.
Assembly members and the Speaker spent hours in Altadena, Malibu and Palisades, witnessing firsthand the impacts of the Eaton and Palisades wildfires and windstorms, and learning how California can best support ongoing emergency response, recovery and rebuilding needs.
“These wildfires are a catastrophe of historic proportions,”
Speaker Robert Rivas
said. “I witnessed firsthand the devastation in Altadena, Malibu, and the Palisades — this is clearly a tragedy that will impact generations to come. We must act swiftly, and I stand united with my Assembly colleagues and commit to fast-tracking relief efforts that address the immediate needs of victims and accelerate recovery. We will not rest until every Angeleno is safe, supported and empowered to rebuild and heal.”
In the coming days, California Assembly members will continue meeting with leaders and residents across Southern California, and plan to announce legislation that prioritizes recovery for all Angelenos.
California Assembly Meets with Fire and Emergency Response Officials, Commits to Full and Fast Recovery for L.A.
Assemblymember Isaac Bryan (D-Los Angeles):
“In Los Angeles, we love, support and protect each other. Help someone who needs it. Together we can make it through even the most unimaginable circumstances. To those who have lost everything, we will not let you carry this weight alone. To those who have been on the fire lines and frontlines all week, we are in this together. We have to continue to lead with love. We are all Los Angeles.”
Assemblymember Jessica Caloza (D-Los Angeles):
“My heart is heavy for those who have lost loved ones, and the families and businesses who must rebuild after this devastating tragedy. Safety is our number one priority, and I am grateful to all of our firefighters, law enforcement personnel, and first responders for their heroic efforts. Thank you to Speaker Rivas for his leadership and bringing us together. I am confident my colleagues and I will do everything in our power to ensure our communities will have the resources they need to rebuild.”
Assemblymember Sade Elhawary (D-South Los Angeles):
“There is a long road ahead of us as we move toward healing from the devastation caused by the wildfires. However, we are dedicated to rebuilding our historically underserved communities in the wake of this natural disaster. And we are grateful to our firefighters and first responders, including the incarcerated individuals who are battling the blazes, whose bravery and sacrifice are powerful in this moment of crisis.”
Assemblymember Mike Fong (D-Alhambra):
“Walking through the communities impacted by the Eaton Fire, words cannot express the tremendous devastation, as many homes, businesses, and lives have been destroyed. I am grateful to Speaker Rivas, our firefighters, first responders, and local organizations for their support and for standing with our communities during this incredibly challenging time. In partnership with our federal, state, and local partners, we will secure the resources to rebuild our communities together."
Assemblymember Jesse Gabriel (D-Encino):
“As fires continue to threaten our San Fernando Valley communities, I want to express my deepest gratitude to the courageous firefighters, law enforcement officers, and emergency personnel risking their lives to protect our homes and loved ones,” said Assemblymember Jesse Gabriel (D-Encino). “I also want to thank Speaker Rivas for his engagement and support during these difficult days. I look forward to working with the Speaker, our colleagues in the Legislature, and our partners at all levels of government to protect and rebuild the communities we are proud to call home.”
Assemblymember Mark González (D-Los Angeles):
“I’m overcome with heartbreak as I witness the immense devastation in Altadena and Pasadena. At the same time, I am filled with a deep sense of hope and determination. We are seeing extraordinary acts of solidarity, from first responders and community leaders to neighbors helping one another. Together, we will rebuild homes, restore businesses, and ensure that those who have lost their jobs receive the support they need to get back on their feet. We are a resilient state, and we will overcome this, one step at a time.”
Assemblymember John Harabedian (D-Pasadena):
“I was born and raised in Sierra Madre just minutes from Altadena. I had birthday parties in the homes and played sports in the parks that are no longer there. To all of those whose lives have been upended in the last few days, my heart and prayers are with you. Thank you to Speaker Rivas for visiting my community and seeing the devastation this fire has caused. We will continue to work together to rebuild and heal from this fire.”
Assemblymember Jacqui Irwin (D-Thousand Oaks):
“I am genuinely appreciative that Speaker Rivas made the trip to the 42nd District to witness first-hand the utter decimation our communities have suffered as a result of the Palisades Fire. His concern, empathy, and support for the thousands of residents who have suffered losses was clearly evident as we toured the burn area. The Speaker made it clear that, in the coming weeks, the Assembly will be prioritizing actions that will provide relief to the victims and ensure that the state uses all resources available to assist in rebuilding. I am equally as thankful to all of my colleagues who have offered support and assistance during this difficult time.”
Chair of L.A. County Legislative Delegation and Assemblymember Tina McKinnor (D-Inglewood):
“In the ashes of devastation, we will stand resolute with our neighbors and loved ones across L.A. County. As Chair of the L.A. County Legislative Delegation, I join my fellow 36 legislators from both political parties in expressing our full commitment to make sure all necessary resources are made available to families and businesses impacted by these wildfires. This emergency is about people, not politics. We will rebuild every community impacted by the LA County wildfires and we will show the world the resilience of L.A.."
Emergency Management Committee Chair and Assemblymember Rhodesia Ransom (D-Stockton):
“The tragic loss of lives, homes, and livelihoods in the LA fire is heartbreaking beyond words. Touring the site with Speaker Rivas and local legislators, I witnessed devastating losses and destruction firsthand. Our focus must now be on supporting survivors, rebuilding lives, and restoring communities with compassion and urgency. I am fully committed to ensuring the necessary resources are available for recovery and rebuilding. My deepest gratitude goes to the first responders, agencies, and volunteers who have stepped up during this crisis. California will do the work to rise from this devastation and ensure no one faces this jouney alone.”
Assemblymember Celeste Rodriguez (D-Arleta):
“The devastation caused by the fires in Los Angeles is profound, as we witnessed entire communities destroyed, leaving families displaced and uncertain about their future. We are working tirelessly and coordinating with our state, local and federal partners to keep people safe and get them support. I am eager to collaborate with the Speaker and my colleagues to develop effective policy solutions that address the needs of our most vulnerable communities.”
Assemblymember Rick Chavez Zbur (D-Hollywood):
“I am grateful to have had the opportunity to assess burn areas affected by the Palisades Fire with Speaker Rivas and my Assembly colleagues this weekend. This devastating fire has destroyed homes and livelihoods, displaced families and their pets, and caused immense heartbreak. While the fires continue and the full extent of the damage remains uncertain, we know that loved ones have been lost and our resilience has been tested. We are thankful to our first responders for their bravery and selflessness in protecting our communities. One thing that gives me great hope is witnessing how people have come together to support each other during this crisis.”