SACRAMENTO, CA
– This week,
Assemblymember Mark González (D-Los Angeles)
introduced
AB 543,
legislation aimed at tackling California's homelessness crisis by expanding access to healthcare and social services through street medicine providers.
California accounts for 66% of the nation's unsheltered population and 28% of the total homeless population. More than 187,000 people live on the streets, facing severe health risks and a mortality rate ten times higher than the general population—largely due to barriers in accessing care. Evidence-based models like street medicine have proven to significantly improve access to healthcare, reduce hospitalizations, enhance chronic disease management, and increase housing placements.
"Every person in our community deserves compassionate, comprehensive care—this includes our unhoused neighbors," said
Assemblymember González
. "Six Angelenos die unhoused every day—that is six too many. Our response must be innovative, humane, and rooted in solutions that work, like street medicine. These are not just programs; they are lifelines."
"Los Angeles County is home to a significant portion of California's homeless population, and it's critical that we address their unique healthcare needs with effective, compassionate solutions," said
Hilda L. Solis, Los Angeles County Chair Pro Tem and Supervisor for the First District
. "Expanding access to street medicine will bring vital care directly to those who need it most, helping to bridge the gap between homelessness and healthcare. I thank Assemblymember González for his leadership in introducing this piece of legislation, which is a crucial step in ensuring the well-being of our unhoused neighbors."
"We know that street medicine is a proven approach that fills critical gaps in the delivery of care to people experiencing homelessness," said
Los Angeles City Councilmember Eunisses Hernández, Chair of the Ad Hoc Committee on Unarmed Response, Prevention, Intervention, and Community Services
. "By meeting unhoused people where they are, these healthcare workers are able to provide life-saving care and life-changing services. That's why I launched the first full-time street medicine team of any Council District in Los Angeles and why I support efforts like AB 543 to scale street medicine statewide."
"Street medicine brings healthcare to our homeless neighbors where they live on the streets, in the riverbeds, or wherever they are. This bill improves our ability to bring the healthcare system with us to the street by first making people visible to the system," said
Brett Feldman, MSPAS, PA-C, Director, USC Street Medicine and Vice-Chair, Street Medicine Institute
. "Then, it improves access to benefits they are already eligible for, but are excluded from, because of their homelessness."
"Street medicine is one of the most effective, evidence-based approaches to meeting the health needs of people experiencing homelessness. Beyond delivering care, it creates lasting pathways out of homelessness," said
Kaitlin Schwan, PhD, Director, California Street Medicine Collaborative and Treasurer, Street Medicine Institute
. "This bill is a critical turning point—offering policy solutions needed to scale street medicine statewide and ensure healthcare becomes a bridge to stable housing, not a barrier."
AB 543 establishes presumptive eligibility for people experiencing homelessness to receive full Medi-Cal coverage, allowing Medi-Cal providers, including street medicine teams, to establish eligibility on the spot and provide immediate care. The bill also requires Medi-Cal and the state's welfare system to share data on homelessness status by introducing a homeless identifier code, enabling better tracking, service coordination, and connection to eligible benefits and programs.
Assemblymember Mark González is the Assembly Majority Whip. He represents the 54th Assembly District composed of the cities of Los Angeles, Commerce, Montebello, and Vernon.
CONTACT:
Jaspreet Johl; Jaspreet.Johl@asm.ca.gov; (916) 335-8871