BURBANK —Assemblymember Nick Schultz (D-Burbank) celebrated Burbank-based nonprofit, Burbank Arts and Education Foundation, as the 44
th
Assembly District’s 2025 California Nonprofit of the Year on Wednesday, May 21, 2025 in Sacramento.
“I was honored to select the Burbank Arts & Education Foundation (BAEF) as the 2025 Nonprofit of the Year. The BAEF has provided critical support to Burbank students for years, including their college essay writing workshop and providing grants for various projects. I commend BAEF for their commitment to meeting the diverse educational needs of every Burbank Unified School District student. Congratulations to this incredible organization on the well-deserved recognition!”
This is the 10
th
year of the California Nonprofit of the Year initiative, a statewide effort honoring the critical role nonprofit organizations play in California. Each year, state Assembly and Senate legislators choose a nonprofit from their district inviting them to the annual awards luncheon at the Capitol.
Brenda Etterbeek, Chair of BAEF, and Gavin Cho, Director of Development, joined Assemblymember Schultz at the Capitol for a full day that included a visit to the Assembly Chambers for photos, a luncheon with all the awardees, and a tour to enjoy the State Capitol’s architectural beauty.
“We are deeply honored to be recognized as a California Nonprofit of the Year by Assemblymember Nick Schultz. With so many incredible nonprofits doing vital work across our state, we are humbled to be counted among them. This recognition reflects the unwavering commitment of our board, volunteers, community partners, and donors who believe in the power of the arts and education to transform lives. Together, we are proud to support the over 14,000 students of Burbank Unified and strengthen the foundation of opportunity for generations to come.”
CalNonprofits, the leading policy voice for California’s nonprofit sector, focuses on advocacy, education, and research to build a more powerful and politically engaged nonprofit network across the state.
###
Nick Schultz represents 44
th
Assembly District, which includes the cities of Burbank, Glendale, and Los Angeles, as well as the communities of La Crescenta, Lake View Terrace, Montrose, North Hollywood, Shadow Hills, Sherman Oaks, Sunland-Tujunga, Studio City, Toluca Lake, and Valley Village.