SANTA ANA
— In Orange County on Wednesday, Assembly Speaker Robert Rivas convened a community meeting on immigration, hosted by Assemblymember Avelino Valencia (D-Anaheim) in his district, and joined by Assemblymember Sharon Quirk-Silva (D-Fullerton) along with more than a dozen nonprofit organizations, including leading immigrant advocacy and legal aid groups.
This conversation at the Santa Ana Educators Association marked the fourth in a series of immigration conversations convened by Speaker Rivas this year. Previous events were held in
Los Angeles
,
Fresno
and
Salinas
.
What Speaker Rivas Says
“Trump is targeting California and sowing chaos, instilling fear and division, and harming our economy. And our immigrants — everyday Californians — are paying the price. I stand with our immigrant communities, with all our workers and families, and I thank Assembly members Valencia and Quirk-Silva for taking the lead to protect our state and our immigrant friends and neighbors. We will only stop Trump by standing together.”
What Assemblymember Avelino Valencia Says
“California’s strength has always come from its immigrant communities. Their impact is felt everywhere, from our classrooms and job sites, to our clinics and homes. But today, our immigrant friends and neighbors live in fear. Immigration raids are tearing families apart and turning our communities into war zones. That is not the California my colleagues or I believe in. I am proud to work with Speaker Rivas and Assemblywoman Quirk Silva to protect our immigrant families and build a California where everyone is safe and valued.”
What Assemblymember Sharon Quirk-Silva Says
“Immigration raids have torn families apart and replaced safety with fear. Our immigrant neighbors are vital to California’s diverse and thriving economy, and we cannot look away as their rights and dignity are stripped away. I thank Speaker Rivas and Assemblymember Valencia for leading the effort to protect immigrant families and strengthen the bonds that make California strong.”
Supporting Immigration Nonprofits, Advocacy and Legal Aid Groups
One of the goals of the community meeting was to understand the needs of Orange County organizations and identify ways California state lawmakers can better support immigrant families.
This discussion comes at a time of escalating threats by President Trump and Congressional Republicans against immigrants in California.
During the discussion, community leaders expressed concerns about the widespread fear in Orange County. Parents are worried about sending their children to school. Residents are staying home and not reporting to work. Local businesses and vendors have experienced losses in revenue. Families are struggling to pay for basic needs like groceries and rent.
The Trump administration has uniquely targeted Santa Ana. ICE raids occur on a daily basis in and around the city. At the meeting, many described immigration officers using excessive force — kicking and punching, throwing individuals to the ground, pulling guns on community members, and the brutal detention of citizens.
California’s economy is already taking a hit. After the immigration raids ramped-up in June, the number of people reporting to work in the private sector in California decreased by
3.1%
. A recent study conducted by the Bay Area Council Economic Institute estimated that immigration enforcement efforts could cost California as much as
$275 billion
in economic activity.
California lawmakers reaffirmed their commitment to protecting immigrant communities, highlighting urgent action already taken this year — including $50 million allocated for legal defense and legal aid. The Assembly is working to advance a package of bills to protect immigrant workers, children and families, including measures to require ICE agents to clearly identify themselves, keep immigration enforcement out of schools and hospitals, and strengthen protections for workers and students.
###
For more information, follow Speaker Robert Rivas at the following social media channels:
Instagram:
@caspeakerrivas
Facebook:
www.facebook.com/CASpeakerRivas/