(Sacramento, CA) – Assemblywoman Pilar Schiavo was reappointed by Speaker Robert Rivas as Chair of the Assembly Military and Veterans Affairs Committee for the upcoming legislative session. The committee plays a vital role in addressing the needs of California’s veterans, service members, and their families by advocating for policies that support those who have served the nation.
“Those who have served and sacrificed to keep our country safe deserve an elected leader who is committed to fighting every day to make their lives better. That’s why this reappointment is such an honor, a responsibility I take very seriously,” said Assemblywoman Schiavo. “Rest assured, as someone raised in a military family, the needs and priorities of our military service members, veterans, and their families are clear and personal. Expanding access to housing that’s affordable, facilitating connections to good paying local jobs, as well as a reaffirming a commitment to improving and expanding services will remain top priorities.”
In a statement from Speaker Robert Rivas he said, “Assemblywoman Schiavo has tirelessly advocated for veterans and military families throughout her career,” Speaker Rivas continued, “In the Assembly, her strong leadership has delivered concrete and practical solutions for those who serve our country. I look forward to continuing to work with Pilar to make a difference in veterans’ lives.”
Last session, under Assemblywoman Schiavo’s leadership, the Military and Veterans Affairs Committee achieved significant milestones, including the passage of key legislation aimed at improving the lives of California’s veterans:
Expanding Veterans' Housing Access (AB 535):
Ensures that veterans' disability benefits are not counted against them as income when determining eligibility for supportive, affordable, and transitional housing, making it easier for veterans to access the housing they need.
Deputy Secretary of Minority and Underrepresented Veteran Affairs (AB 1994):
Establishes a permanent position within the California Department of Veterans Affairs to advocate for minority and underrepresented veterans.
Reservist Retroactive Financial Support (AB 1854):
Now signed into law, this bill extends the time for reservists or National Guard members to apply for retroactive deferment of payment and interest on certain debts, such as credit cards, vehicle loans, and mortgages. This law ensures that members of the Guard and Reserve, who are often called to active duty on short notice, can take full advantage of legal financial protections even after deployment.
###
Assemblywoman Pilar Schiavo was elected to the California State Assembly in November of 2022 to represent the 40th Assembly District, representing the Northwest San Fernando Valley and the Santa Clarita Valley. Upon her election, she was appointed as Assistant Majority Whip by the Speaker of the Assembly and now serves as Chair of the Assembly Committee on Military and Veterans Affairs. Prior to her election, Assemblywoman Schiavo was a Nurse Advocate and Small Business Owner who worked in the labor movement for more than 20 years. Throughout her career, Assemblywoman Schiavo helped deliver healthcare, including reproductive healthcare, to more than one million people. In the Northwest San Fernando Valley, she co-founded an organization that helped secure housing for Veterans experiencing homelessness, has delivered more than 50,000 meals to people in need, and increased resources to help keep our communities safe. Assemblywoman Schiavo lives in Chatsworth with her daughter Sofia where they love to hike in the Santa Susana Mountains.