Assemblymember Harabedian Launches Audit on
Los Angeles Wildfire Prevention and Response
(SACRAMENTO, CA)
– In light of the devastating Eaton and Palisades fire that claimed 30 lives and destroyed over 18,000 buildings in LA County
Assemblymember John Harabedian (D-Pasadena)
, Chair of the Joint Legislative Audit Committee, has initiated an audit by the California State Auditor on the prevention and response efforts related to the Eaton and Palisades Fires.
“18 of my neighbors lost their lives in Altadena and countless more had their livelihoods upended in the Los Angeles Fires. They and their families deserve the truth about what happened. As Chair of the Joint Legislative Audit Committee, I believe it is my duty to push for transparency, accountability, and improved readiness before the next disaster strikes. Enough damage has been done to communities like West Altadena. We must ensure our neighborhoods are never left vulnerable again. This audit will help us build on what worked and fix what failed,” said
Assemblymember Harabedian
.
The audit will:
Identify how many homes were destroyed, where deaths occurred, and who was most impacted, especially vulnerable populations.
Analyze the timeline of the fires, evacuation orders, and emergency responses to assess whether systems functioned properly and in a timely manner
Examine fire preparedness, including brush management, building codes, and resource planning, as well as whether critical information was shared with officials and the public.
Investigate water availability, utility shutoffs, and whether firefighting and evacuation plans were adequate, especially under extreme conditions.
The audit request was approved by the Joint Legislative Audit Committee and will be conducted by the California State Auditor, likely starting in the fall.
#####
Assemblymember John Harabedian represents the 41st District composed of the cities of La Ca
ñ
ada Flintridge, Pasadena, Altadena, Sierra Madre, Monrovia, Bradbury, San Dimas, La Verne, Claremont, Upland, Rancho Cucamonga, Oak Hills, Pi
ñ
on Hills and Phelan.