(Sacramento, CA) January 15, 2024
– Currently deployed to the LA fires as a Chief Medical Officer with the California Medical Assistance Team, Dr. Jasmeet Bains (D-Delano) today introduced the Stop Laying off Firefighters Act, which guarantees that CAL FIRE (California Department of Forestry and Fire Protection) will maintain full staffing levels throughout the year.
“If there is no such thing as a fire season anymore, why does the state continue to lay off thousands of firefighters every winter,” asked Dr. Bains. “The LA fires are just the latest reminder that the risk of devastating wildfires is just as high in January as in June.”
Dr. Bains’ proposal, the Stop Laying off Firefighters Act, will authorize CAL FIRE to stay fully staffed to combat fire, flooding, earthquakes, and other natural disasters all year. Even when fires are not actively burning, a year-round force can perform many preventative measures to limit and mitigate fire risk. These could include prescribed burns, vegetation management including brush clearing, fire education, and reviewing high-risk area home hardening measures.
Under current practices, the state does not provide enough funding to CAL FIRE to have full staffing during winter months despite increasing fire risk in all seasons, as demonstrated by the catastrophic wildfires currently burning around Los Angeles.
According to the Legislative Analyst's Office (LAO), CAL FIRE has more than 350 fully staffed fire engines during the summer months, but winter layoffs due to state budgeting take nearly 200 engines out of service because of a lack of personnel.
“We cannot keep asking our firefighters to work dangerously long hours battling life-threatening flames with one hand tied behind their back,” said Dr. Bains. “Budget savings are no excuse. The cost of preventing fires pales in comparison to the loss of life and property. These fires are a profound crisis that requires we do everything possible to prevent this from happening again.”
Historically, ‘fire season’ in California has been between May and October. Cal Fire’s most recent data shows an alarming increase in the frequency of fires, with more than 450,000 fire incidents reported in 2015 and nearly 600,000 in 2023. That is a thirty percent increase over eight years. Of the twenty largest and most destructive wildfires in state history, the majority have occurred in just the last ten years.
Major wildfire events also strain the resources of local fire departments throughout the state. The Stop Laying off Firefighters Act (AB 252) would also reduce the impact on municipal fire departments and allow for even more strategic deployments of additional and volunteer resources.
# # #
Dr. Jasmeet Bains represents the 35
th
Assembly District in Kern County, including the cities of Bakersfield, Delano, Wasco, Arvin, Shafter, and McFarland.