SACRAMENTO, CA
– This week,
Assemblymember Mark González (D – Los Angeles)
introduced AB 865, legislation that establishes the Dual Language Immersion Education Instructional Materials Grant Program with a one-time appropriation of $5 million to increase the availability of instructional materials in Dual Language Immersion (DLI) programs across California.
"AB 865 will ensure that teachers have access to the instructional materials they need to better serve our diverse student population," said
Assemblymember González.
"With over 70% of my district speaking a language other than English at home—including Spanish, Korean, Mandarin, Cantonese, and Japanese—this bill is a necessary step toward educational equity and multilingual proficiency."
"Dual language immersion is an effective educational model that supports increased engagement and helps our students to embrace the diversity of our communities," said joint author
Assemblymember José Solache (D-Lynwood)
. "Increasing resources and opportunities for dual language immersion programs has proven to improve academic outcomes for students and strengthen their foundation for future success. I commend Assemblymember Mark Gonzalez for his leadership on this important educational measure."
"Dual Language Immersion is an important part of ensuring all Californians have access to education, and helps increase multilingualism in our schools. Assembly Bill 865 is an important step towards strengthening these vital DLI programs, and I want to thank Assemblymember Mark Gonzalez for authoring this vital bill for the communities we represent," said principal coauthor
Senator Sabrina Cervantes (D-Riverside).
"AJSOCAL is excited to work with Assemblymember Mark González on the Dual Immersion Instructional Materials Grant. This grant will support teachers in dual immersion programs by funding the development and purchase of standards-aligned, in-language instructional materials currently missing in these classrooms. Three of the top five languages among English learner students are Asian languages (Mandarin, Vietnamese, and Cantonese)," said
Connie Chung Joe, CEO of Asian Americans Advancing Justice Southern California (AJSOCAL).
"Dual immersion programs have shown successful results for students from non-native and native English-speaking backgrounds in gaining proficiency in multiple languages. We're grateful to Assemblymember González for his leadership to ensure our teachers and students are equipped with the materials they need to thrive in our diverse schools and society."
AB 865 prioritizes languages spoken by English learner students in California. The California Department of Education (CDE) will administer the program over three years, with $3.5 million allocated to DLI programs in the five most common partner languages among English learner students—Spanish, Vietnamese, Mandarin, Arabic, and Cantonese. An additional $1.5 million will be allocated to DLI programs in other partner languages, such as Korean, Armenian, and Japanese.
These grants will allow schools to develop or purchase standards-aligned instructional materials in partner languages, including textbooks, workbooks, and supplemental materials.
AB 865 represents a critical investment in California's commitment to bilingual education, cultural competency, and academic excellence for all students.
Assemblymember Mark González is the Assembly Majority Whip. He represents the 54th Assembly District composed of the cities of Los Angeles, Commerce, Montebello, and Vernon.
CONTACT:
Jaspreet Johl; Jaspreet.Johl@asm.ca.gov; (916) 335-8871