SACRAMENTO, CA –
Assemblywoman Esmeralda Soria (D-Merced) is announcing the Health Committee’s passage of her bill AB 849, which will protect patients from sexual abuse during vulnerable examinations by requiring the presence of a trained medical chaperone.
“We should all recognize that when you’re under the care of medical professionals, when you’re at a hospital, you should feel safe,”
Soria said. “
That’s why we’re focusing on prevention measures and adequate training for medical chaperones, to ensure patients are protected."
The presence of a medical chaperone during a physical examination provides reassurance to patients of the professional character of the exam while boosting legal protections for medical personnel. AB 849requires health facilities to notify patients that a trained chaperone will be provided at their request for all sensitive ultrasound exams. The bill also creates requirements for the education of chaperones, ensuring that they understand how to identify and intervene against predatory behavior.
“Five years ago, a well-trained chaperone could have protected me from being sexually assaulted by an ultrasound technician at the Los Banos hospital,”
said survivor Celi Gonzalez.
“Thanks to the support of Assemblywoman Soria, women like me in the future might have that ally in the room with them. On behalf of myself and my fellow survivors, we are so grateful for her belief in us and her commitment to make it harder for men like him to hurt women like us.”
AB 849’s provisions protect the physical and psychological safety of patients in vulnerable situations while enhancing the trust and transparency that is crucial to the patient-provider relationship.
AB 849 will be heard next in the Assembly Appropriations Committee. For the latest information on our legislative bill package, please visit our website and social media accounts.
Facebook:
@Assemblymember Esmeralda Soria
Instagram:
@asmesmeraldasoria
BlueSky:
@esmeraldasoria.bsky.social
# # #
Assemblywoman Esmeralda Soria represents the 27th Assembly District which includes communities in Fresno, Madera, and Merced counties.