SACRAMENTO, CA
– Yesterday, Assemblymember Gregg Hart (D-Santa Barbara) announced that Assembly Bill 1108 advanced through the Assembly and moved on to the Senate. The Forensic Accountability, Custodial Transparency, and Safety (FACTS) Act of 2025 will require independent medical examinations into the deaths of individuals who die in-custody.
California is one of only three States in the country to allow sheriffs to simultaneously serve as coroners.
In 48 counties across the State, elected sheriffs are tasked with investigating all suspicious and unattended deaths — including deaths that occur in their custody.
In the aftermath of a death in a jail, the same officials responsible for keeping incarcerated individuals safe are also tasked with conducting death investigations and medical examinations.
A 2024 Santa Barbara County Grand Jury report identified both the real and perceived conflicts of interest that arise from this arrangement.
"In-custody deaths demand independent oversight to maintain public trust and ensure transparency. AB 1108 will eliminate conflicts of interest by requiring impartial medical examinations, so families and communities can have confidence in the integrity of these investigations,"
states Assemblymember Hart
.
As Chair of the Budget Subcommittee No. 7 on Accountability and Oversight, Assemblymember Hart is focused on strengthening the integrity and credibility of public institutions. AB 1108 builds on this commitment by ensuring that investigations into in-custody deaths are free from bias or undue influence, particularly in counties where sheriffs also serve as coroners. This legislation reflects a growing consensus that independent review is essential to upholding justice and public confidence.
Gregg Hart represents the California Assembly's 37th Assembly District, which includes Santa Barbara, Goleta, Carpinteria, Montecito, Summerland, Buellton, Solvang, Lompoc, Guadalupe, Santa Maria, Orcutt, and Nipomo. He currently serves as the Chair of the Budget Subcommittee No. 7 on Accountability and Oversight.
CONTACT:
Terra Grantham, (916) 319-2037, Terra.Grantham@asm.ca.gov