[Sacramento, CA] — Historic legislation by Assemblymember Tina McKinnor (D - Inglewood) to repair harm inflicted on California descendants of formerly enslaved people was overwhelmingly approved by the State Assembly today. AB 57 and AB 62, both authored by McKinnor, are part of the California Legislative Black Caucus’ “Road to Repair” legislative package.
AB 57 will address systemic inequities in homeownership by reserving a portion of the funds within California’s Home Purchase Assistance Program specifically for the descendants of formerly enslaved people. This targeted approach acknowledges the historical harms caused by slavery and systemic racism and aims to provide reparative housing assistance. AB 57 was approved on a vote of 52 to 10.
The legacy of slavery and systemic racism in the United States has resulted in significant disparities in homeownership and wealth accumulation for Americans who are the descendants of formerly enslaved people. Homeownership is one of the most effective ways to build generational wealth, but continued discriminatory policies after the end of slavery, including redlining, racial covenants and inequitable access to credit have historically excluded the descendants of formerly enslaved people and their families from these opportunities.
Today, the  homeownership gap persists, with the descendants of formerly enslaved people lagging behind White households in homeownership rates by approximately 30 percentage points. Existing programs aimed at promoting homeownership do not specifically address the unique historical injustices faced by the descendants of formerly enslaved people. Without targeted measures, the state cannot adequately address the wealth gap and housing disparities rooted in these injustices and discrimination.
Increasing homeownership opportunities for the descendants of formerly enslaved people will help to strengthen California’s economy, build generational wealth and increase homeownership opportunities for families across the Golden State.
AB 62 will provide a pathway for victims of racially motivated eminent domain to seek redress for the harm caused to them or their family. This bill reflects California’s commitment to advancing racial equity by addressing historical injustices and fostering community restoration. The measure was approved on a vote of 57 to 4.
Eminent domain allows governmental entities to take private property for public use, provided the property owner receives just compensation. While this power has been useful in building infrastructure and public access, it has also been inappropriately used in ways that have harmed minority and marginalized communities. Throughout the 20th century, racially motivated eminent domain practices displaced countless Black, Indigenous, and other communities of color under the guise of public development projects, urban renewal and highway construction. These actions disrupted families, destroyed generational wealth and fractured communities.
Communities that were victims of racially motivated eminent domain often lost their homes, businesses, and cultural anchors, leading to intergenerational economic and social harm. Existing eminent domain laws do not currently provide mechanisms for redress or reparative justice for these victims. California has acknowledged the systemic harm caused by structural racism through measures like the establishment of the Racial Equity Commission. However, there remains a need to directly address the lasting impacts of racially motivated eminent domain and provide restitution to affected individuals and families.
“It is time for California to stand up and repair the generational harms caused by slavery and the trauma that continues to impact the lives of Californians who are the descendants of formerly enslaved people,” said Assemblymember Tina McKinnor. “Helping Californians build generational wealth through homeownership and being fairly compensated for property wrongfully taken from them or their family is just two of many steps needed to address the lingering injustices of slavery that continue to this day. Today’s action by the State Assembly is a clear indication that California is on the right side of history and is committed to take courageous action necessary to make Californians who are the descendants of formerly enslaved people whole.”
AB 57 and AB 62 now head to the State Senate for further action.
###