SACRAMENTO, CA – This week, Assemblymember Connolly (D-San Rafael) successfully passed five bills out of their respective policy committees in the State Assembly. This includes:
AB 1151
(‘Ought to be a Law’ Winner),
AB 674
(Clean Cars 4 All),
AB 846
(Streamlined Wildfire Preparedness Permitting),
AB 384
(The Mental Health Protection Act), and
AB 1177
(CalFIRE Staffing).
“
This week marks a critical step forward in our legislative efforts out in Sacramento, as several more bills passed successfully through their Assembly policy committees
,” said Assemblymember Connolly. “From wildfire resilience and environmental stewardship to mental health and senior accessibility, I look forward to continuing to support these initiatives through the legislative process
.
”
AB 1151:
will streamlin
e the process for seniors to receive a replacement photo ID when they give up their driver’s license. This bill was the winning submission of the ‘There Ought to be a Law’ contest.
Passed through the Assembly Transportation Committee with unanimous and bipartisan support.
AB 674: improves the Clean Cars 4 All program, which helps lower-income consumers replace older, high-polluting vehicles with cleaner transportation.
Passed through the Assembly Transportation Committee with 15 ‘AYE’ votes and bipartisan support.
Passed through the Assembly Natural Resources Committee with unanimous and bipartisan support.
AB 846: will provide a clear process to accelerate and streamline wildfire preparedness and vegetation management.
Passed through the Assembly Water, Parks and Wildlife Committee with unanimous and bipartisan support.
Passed through the Assembly Natural Resources Committee with unanimous and bipartisan support.
AB 384: removes delays to patient care during mental health and substance abuse emergencies by prohibiting health insurance plans from requiring prior authorization during these critical situations.
Passed through the Assembly Health Committee with 13 ‘AYE’ votes.
AB 1177: improves CALFire staffing, allowing them to more effectively respond to emergencies.
Passed through the Assembly Governmental Organization Committee with unanimous and bipartisan support.
###
Assemblymember Connolly represents the entirety of Marin County and Southern Sonoma County