(Sacramento, CA) May 22, 2025
– Today, Dr. Jasmeet Bains (D-Delano) submitted a resolution to formally censure the California GOP Congressional Delegation after all nine members voted to slash federal healthcare and food assistance funding estimated to cost the state up to $30 billion annually.
“We send representatives to Washington DC to fight for California,” said Dr. Bains. “Instead of standing up for us, our Republican delegation sold us out. No state in the nation is harmed more by Trump’s Big Ugly Lie. The Negligent Nine betrayed California, putting loyalty to Trump and their political party above the 40 million residents of the greatest state in the union.”
Dr. Bains’ censure is in direct response to the vote this morning to pass President Trump’s “One, Big Beautiful Bill,” which makes bone-deep cuts to numerous social safety net programs to offset the cost of increasing tax cuts for the ultra-wealthy. The bill also increases the national deficit by $4 trillion.
The cut to Medicaid would be the most significant to the program in its history.
The Censure Resolution (AJR 13) includes the following congressional representatives:
Representative Doug LaMalfa, (CA-1)
Representative Kevin Kiley, (CA-3)
Representative Tom McClintock, (CA-5)
Representative Vince Fong, (CA-20)
Representative David Valadao, (CA-22)
Representative Jay Obernolte, (CA-23)
Representative Young Kim, (CA-40)
Representative Ken Calvert, (CA-41)
Representative Darrel Issa, (CA-48)
The censure language calls out cuts to Medicaid (known as Medi-Cal in California), Medicare, Social Security, and the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) in California, which is known as CalFresh.
Nearly 15 million Californians rely on Medi-Cal, and just over 5 million rely on nutrition assistance. The proposed cuts in the GOP budget bill would also impact free and reduced-price school meals.
Under the GOP cuts, more than 3.4 million Californians, including 400,000 Valley residents, could lose their healthcare coverage.
The budget bill also includes provisions to increase taxes on the poorest ten percent of Americans while reducing the tax liability of the wealthy and ballooning the debt.
“My health clinic has been overwhelmed with appointment requests ever since my patients heard these cuts were coming. We're going to see higher co-pays, longer ER waits, hospital closures, and increased nursing home expenses. All the while, President Trump’s billionaire friends get to buy an extra yacht,” said Dr. Bains.
A censure is a formal reprimand that publicly admonishes abhorrent or malicious actions by an individual or group. In March, the US House of Representatives voted to censure Rep. Al Green for disrupting President Trump’s speech to Congress.
# # #
Dr. Jasmeet Bains represents the 35
th
Assembly District in Kern County, including the cities of Bakersfield, Delano, Wasco, Arvin, Shafter, and McFarland.