SACRAMENTO, CA
—California is facing unprecedented threats from the Trump administration, including harmful cuts and costly tariffs that are driving up prices for families and businesses, and escalating immigration raids designed to stoke fear in Los Angeles and communities across the state.
The Senate and Assembly’s budget agreement is a fiscally responsible strategy that prepares California for economic uncertainty caused by the chaos in Washington and ensures the ability to adapt as needed for the future. It is also based on shared sacrifice: We’re not turning our backs on California’s most vulnerable.
The two houses reversed some of the most devastating proposed cuts to health care and social service access for millions of families, while making the tough decisions needed to reduce costs and balance the budget.
The agreement also advances landmark policies that will fast-track housing construction and wildfire prevention, invest in resources to combat homelessness, and help make California more affordable. It includes smart investments in public safety and makes sure our kids and public schools are even stronger.
What Senate President Pro Tem Mike McGuire and Assembly Speaker Robert Rivas Say
“California’s workers and businesses power our nation-leading economy, and our legislative budget prepares the Golden State for deep uncertainty in the face of chaotic and vengeful attacks, and the cuts and tariffs pushed by Republicans and the Trump administration.
“While we have made many tough but necessary decisions to achieve a balanced budget, we will never waver in our commitment to all Californians. This budget fights to protect health care access for millions of the most vulnerable families, speeds-up housing construction, and makes homes more affordable. It advances historic investments in CalFire to make our state more fire safe, and prioritizes our kids and public schools.
“We appreciate the hard work and dedication of our budget chairs, Assemblymember Jesse Gabriel and Senator Scott Wiener, along with our budget subcommittee leaders and staff, who have been working tirelessly to build a budget that delivers for all 40 million Californians.”
###
For credentialed members of the media and Capitol correspondents: Please email
Cynthia.Moreno@asm.ca.gov
and
Nick.Miller@asm.ca.gov
for the Assembly’s overview of the legislative budget agreement.
The Senate and Assembly will hold hearings on the budget agreement this week, and a final floor vote is expected to take place later in the week.
Speaker of the Assembly Robert Rivas represents California’s 29th Assembly District, which includes all of San Benito County and portions of Monterey, Santa Cruz, and Santa Clara Counties. For a full biography of Speaker Rivas, click
here
.