MARTINEZ, CA
—Today, in a ceremony held in the California State Assembly chambers, Assembly Member Anamarie Avila Farias recognized Gigi Crowder of the National Alliance on Mental Illness’s Contra Costa chapter (NAMI Contra Costa) as her Woman of the Year for the 15th Assembly District.
“Gigi’s unwavering dedication to mental health advocacy has transformed countless lives in Contra Costa County, making her a beacon of hope for individuals and families navigating the complexities of mental illness,” said Avila Farias. “As a leader with NAMI Contra Costa, Gigi has worked tirelessly to dismantle the stigma surrounding mental health, championing access to vital resources, education, and support networks for those in need.
“Her commitment to fostering community partnerships and ensuring that every person— regardless of background or circumstance—has the opportunity to receive compassionate care embodies the very essence of leadership and service,” continued Assemblymember Avila Farias.
Ms. Gigi R. Crowder, L. E., is a native of Oakland, CA. and is the mother of 2 biological children; 33 years old twin sons and has served as a foster mom and mentor to many more through divine interventions. Gigi served for over 9 years as the Ethnic Services Manager for Alameda County Behavioral Health Care Services and has worked in the Behavioral Health Care field for more than 25 years after completing her studies at the University of California, Berkeley.
As a family member of several loved ones who have received private and public mental health services, she is a strong advocate for promoting culturally responsive behavioral health services for all consumers and family members. Gigi is the Chief Executive Office for NAMI Contra Costa, having join the staff in 2017 with a mission to improve outcomes for Contra Costa residents impacted by mental illness. Gigi is also the Co-Founder of Mental Health Friendly Communities a faith- based, community defined, mental health education and stigma reduction curriculum.
She, and her team at NAMI CC, recognizing the disparities experienced by BIPOC communities and recognizing African Americans as the most harmed due to systemic racism, created the "40 Voices Campaign. " This effort was launched to advocate for an African American Holistic & Resource Hub. Gigi promotes utilizing resources such as those found in faith/spiritual communities and works hard to promote the use of community defined strategies for all unserved, underserved and inappropriately served ethnic and cultural communities.
The highlights of her career include being inducted in the Alameda County Women Hall of Fame for her work in developing programs to enhance employment opportunities for individuals with psychiatric challenges, receiving the 2013 MHAAC Mental Health Achievement Award, the 2016 Multi-Cultural Outreach Award from NAMI California, being honored as the 2022 Contra Costa County Adult Humanitarian, and recieving the 2023 East Bay Leadership Council's Change Agent Award.
Assembly Member Avila Farias represents California State Assembly District 15. The district encompasses Martinez, Pleasant Hill, Concord, Clayton, Pittsburg, Bay Point, Antioch, Crockett portions of Brentwood and unincorporated areas of Contra Costa County.