SACRAMENTO, CA
— As Chair of the Assembly Committee on Military and Veterans Affairs, Assemblywoman Pilar Schiavo announced a series of major legislative victories that reaffirm her commitment to veterans and military families.
“As the daughter and sister of a veteran, this work is deeply personal. My father battled cancer three times from his exposure to Agent Orange in Vietnam, and his access to care and benefits from the VA gave him 40 more years of life. It’s that experience that motivates me to ensure every single veteran in California has the same care and support,” said Assemblywoman Schiavo. “We owe our veterans more than just thanks—we owe them action. From protecting veterans from predatory scams to increasing access to education and tax relief, we are delivering meaningful change to those who’ve served our country.”
Legislative Wins for Veterans in 2025
Protecting Veterans from Predatory Practices (SB 694)
Assemblywoman Schiavo is a joint author of Protecting Veterans from Predatory Practices (SB 694), protecting California veterans from being charged illegal and exorbitant fees when applying for disability benefits. Despite federal law prohibiting fees for initial VA claims, unaccredited actors continue to exploit veterans—sometimes charging tens of thousands of dollars for services veterans can receive for free through accredited County Veterans Service Officers (CVSOs). This bill strengthens state protections to align with federal law, ensuring veterans are safeguarded from these predatory practices and disabled veterans receive all of the benefits due to them.
Click here to see my testimony on this bill today.
Delivering Tax Relief for Military Retirees (AB 53)
Included in this year’s state budget, Delivering Tax Relief for Military Retirees (AB 53) exempts the first $20,000 of military retirement pay from state income taxes for retired veterans with 20+ years of service. This tax break helps ensure veterans keep more of what they’ve earned. It applies to single filers with incomes under $125,000 and joint filers under $250,000.
Strengthening California’s Role in National Defense (AB 1508)
Strengthening California’s Role in National Defense (AB 1508) extends the work of the Governor’s Military Council through 2031. The Council plays a vital role in supporting California’s military installations and ensuring our state remains a leader in national defense. By advocating for quality-of-life issues for military families and supporting local partnerships, the Council protects California’s military jobs and boosts our state’s economy.
Expanding Oversight of Veterans’ Education Benefits (AB 1509)
Expanding Oversight of Veterans’ Education Benefits (AB 1509) gives CalVet clear authority over the California State Approving Agency for Veterans Education (CSAAVE), the state’s watchdog over institutions that enroll veterans using GI Bill benefits. This bill strengthens oversight of educational institutions to ensure veterans receive high-quality, fraud-free, training and education.
Veterans Resource Centers at Community Colleges
Assemblywoman Schiavo voted to include $10.8 million in this year’s budget for Veterans Resource Centers at California’s community colleges. These centers provide critical services to support student veterans in their transition from military to academic and civilian life, including academic counseling, peer support, and mental health resources.
“As Chair of the Military and Veterans Affairs Committee, I’ve made it my mission to center veterans in our state policy—because when veterans thrive, our communities thrive,” said Assemblywoman Schiavo. “I’m grateful to the veterans service organizations, community advocates, and legislative partners who continue to stand with us in this fight.”
###
Assemblywoman Pilar Schiavo was elected to the California State Assembly in November of 2022 and re-elected in 2024 to represent the 40th Assembly District, representing the Northwest San Fernando Valley, Val Verde, Castaic and the Santa Clarita Valley. Upon her election, she was appointed as Assistant Majority Whip by the Speaker of the Assembly and now serves as Chair of the Assembly Committee on Military and Veterans Affairs. During her first term she brought back a record $93 million district investment in school and community safety, seniors meal programs, veteran housing, domestic violence services and creating local jobs. Prior to her election, Assemblywoman Schiavo was a Nurse Advocate and Small Business Owner who worked in the labor movement for more than 20 years. Throughout her career, Assemblywoman Schiavo helped deliver healthcare, including reproductive healthcare, to more than one million people. In the Northwest San Fernando Valley, she co-founded an organization that helped secure housing for Veterans experiencing homelessness, has delivered more than 50,000 meals to people in need, and increased resources to help keep our communities safe. Assemblywoman Schiavo lives in Chatsworth with her creative kid where they love to hike in the Santa Susana Mountains.