SACRAMENTO, CA – In less than 24 hours, President Donald Trump will officially place countless LGBTQ+ youth lives on the line—fulfilling a dangerous promise to eradicate DEI initiatives across the nation.
Since 2022, 988—the nation's official hotline for suicide prevention and crisis management—has collaborated with several non-profit organizations who offer specialized services designed to prevent LGBTQ+ youth suicide. Under order of the President, the hotline will be prohibited from transferring youth in crisis these organizations.
Assemblymember Mark González, Governor Gavin Newsom, and Lieutenant Governor Eleni Kounalakis
have joined forces to push back against this federal administration, prioritizing lives over political gambits.
AB 727, authored by
Assemblymember González
, will require student ID cards for grades 7–12 and at institutions of higher education to include the
Trevor Project's LGBTQ+ Crisis Support Line
, providing immediate access to life-saving resources.
Further, the state is investing a historic $4.7 billion into the
Master Plan for Kids' Mental Health
—including partnerships with organizations that are working to address suicide prevention, such as the Trevor Project.
"I am appalled by the inhumanity this federal administration continues to show towards LGBTQ+ youth across this nation," said
Assemblymember González
. "These are children who are lost in this confusing world, in mental crisis, and who just need someone to listen and validate their identity. I will not stand by and wait as this President attempts to erase the queer community."
"While the Trump administration continues its attacks on LGBTQ kids, California has a message to the gay community: we see you and we're here for you," said
Governor Newsom
. "We're proud to work with the Trevor Project to ensure that every person in our state can get the support they need to live a happy, healthy life."
"The Trump Administration is turning its back on LGBTQ+ youth in crisis—but California won't," said
Lieutenant Governor Kounalakis
. "At a time when students are facing mounting mental health challenges, cutting off access to crisis support is not just heartless—it's dangerous. That is why I'm proud to co-sponsor AB 727 by Assemblymember González to protect these life-saving services and ensure our LGBTQ+ youth know they are supported, valued, and never alone."
Studies have consistently shown the need for increased specialized suicide prevention services for LGBTQ+ youth. The
Centers for Disease Control
, for example, have highlighted the staggering statistics. In a report, they found that 20% of surveyed students who identified as gay, lesbian, or bisexual reported having attempted suicide, compared to 6% of their heterosexual peers. This reality jumps to nearly
26% for transgender high school students
.
In the United States, schools should be a safe place to learn. Unfortunately, the reality is stark. According to the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), schools were the third most common location for hate crimes reported against LGBTQ+ youth. These incidents more than doubled between 2018 and 2022. However, these figures are likely underreported due to the voluntary nature of the reporting process.
"The idea for AB 727 came from LGBTQ+ youth in our programs who know firsthand how hard it can be to find safe, affirming support when they're in crisis. At the Sacramento LGBT Community Center, we're proud to have partnered with Assemblymember González and a coalition of advocates to advance this life-saving legislation,"
David Heitstuman, CEO, Sacramento LGBT Community Center
. "With federal 988 funding being eliminated, the need for visible, accessible mental health resources has never been more urgent. AB 727 puts help directly into students' hands by adding The Trevor Project's suicide prevention lifeline to school ID cards—because every young person deserves to know they are not alone, and that someone who values them will answer the call. California must do more to support LGBTQ+ youth, and this bill is a bold step in that direction."
"As the Trump Administration cuts funding for 988 mental health services, California must lead and uphold its responsibility to ensure every student has access to care," said
Joey Espinoza-Hernandez, Director of Policy and Community Building at the Los Angeles LGBT Center.
"The Center is proud to support AB 727—lifesaving legislation that meets this moment with the urgency it demands. Queer and trans youth deserve safety, affirmation, and the resources they need to thrive. When the federal government fails, our state must take action—because saving lives is non-negotiable."
Though modest in scope, AB 727 represents a meaningful step toward creating safer, more affirming school environments across California.
Assemblymember Mark González is the Assembly Majority Whip. He represents the 54th Assembly District composed of the cities of Los Angeles, Commerce, Montebello, and Vernon.
CONTACT:
Jaspreet Johl; Jaspreet.Johl@asm.ca.gov; (916) 335-8871