OAKLAND
– Today, Assemblymember Bonta recognized TWENTY community members, businesses, civic Leaders, and nonprofits for their lasting impacts on California's 18th Assembly District at her annual AD-18 Awards Luncheon. The event, held this year in Alameda, recognizes the incredible community leaders, entrepreneurs, and advocates whose contributions help shape a stronger and more resilient Assembly District 18 in 2024.
“I’m incredibly proud to host our 3rd Annual Assembly District 18 Awards and recognize the outstanding public servants contributing to our community. From teachers empowering students to find their voice to organizations investing millions in the most underserved parts of our district, community members from all walks of life show up daily to do the tough, unsung work that keeps Assembly District 18 thriving,” said Assemblymember Mia Bonta. “Celebrating those who have committed themselves to public service is essential to acknowledging the challenges our community has overcome and preparing to continue working for a better future.”
The ceremony followed past AD-18 Award Celebrations in Emeryville and San Leandro* (*before redistricting) and featured Assemblymember Mia Bonta’s “State of the District,” highlighting her recent legislative victories and reaffirming her commitment to community collaboration to address the needs of AD-18 residents. Speakers and Attendees included former Congresswoman Barbara Lee, Mayor of Alameda Marilyn Ezzy Ashcraft, former Oakland City Councilmember Treva Reid (District 7), and other community leaders.
This year’s awardees were recognized for contributions to the 18th District and chosen through a selection process led by Assemblymember Bonta, staff, and community members.
Assembly District 18 Awardees for 2024 include:
Arts & Festivals of the Year:
Educators of the Year:
Filipino Island Festival (
Alameda)
Michele Kuttner (Alameda)
Harvest Festival (
Emeryville
)
Regina Chagolla (Emeryville)
Día de los Muertos (
Oakland
)
Nidya Baez (Oakland)
Community Peace Leader of the Year:
Non-Profit of the Year:
The Ahimsa Collective
Children’s Fairyland
Health Champion of the Year:
Outstanding Organization of the Year:
Samuel Merritt University
Youth Uprising
Social Justice Champion of the Year:
Small Business of the Year:
West Oakland Environmental Indicators Project
Blk Girls Green House
Youth Leadership Organization of the Year:
Unsung Hero of the Year:
Oakland Youth Commission
Cathy Adams
Local Hero of the Year:
Woman of the Year:
Teale Harden, Alameda Food Bank Executive Director
Fmr. Councilmember Treva Reid
Lifetime Achievement Awards:
Fmr. Congresswoman Barbara Lee
Fmr. Alameda County Supervisor Keith Carson
Honorable Ellen Corbett
###
Assemblymember Mia Bonta
represents California’s 18
th
Assembly District encompassing the East Bay including Oakland, Alameda, and Emeryville. She also chairs the Assembly Health Committee.