SACRAMENTO—A measure prohibiting schools from creating any process that would discourage or prevent Native American students from displaying any tribal adornment or ceremonial regalia at graduation ceremonies was approved today by the Senate Education Committee. Assemblymember James C. Ramos (D-San Bernardino) introduced the bill, AB 1369.
“Despite existing legislation and constitutional protections to allow students to wear traditional tribal regalia at graduation ceremonies,
Native American youth and their families continue to face obstacles and challenges
. Graduation ceremonies are a time for students, their families and tribal communities to share pride and joy in a major accomplishment. AB 1369 adds clarity to current law so that students’ and families’ celebration is not marred by unnecessary turmoil,” Ramos said. He noted that regalia might include items such as eagle feathers or beading and represent cultural and religious traditions.
Testifying at the hearing was Bella Garcia, a May graduate from Clovis High School, who struggled for almost two years to win approval to wear Native American adornments at her graduation. She said, “California sits on the traditional homelands of all California Indian people, and it is important to recognize California tribes’ sovereignty. American Indian youth deserve to be recognized, celebrated and uplifted while honoring their ancestors who came before them. Graduation is one of the most momentous milestones especially for California Native Americans.”
In 2018, the Legislature took action to protect student rights by passing AB 1248 (Chapter 804, Statutes of 2018). That bill stated, “A pupil may wear traditional tribal regalia or recognized objects of religious of cultural significance as an adornment at school graduation ceremonies.” Despite this language, school districts continue to deny Native American students from wearing tribal regalia or attempt to tell them what constitutes authentic or appropriate tribal items.
In 2021, the legislature passed Ramos’s AB 945 (Chapter 285, Statutes of 2021) which established a task force that would provide education leaders with policy, procedure, and best practices recommendations for the implementation of AB 1284. The report is currently being drafted. However, immediate action is required with this measure as instances of denials continue to be reported.
California Indian Legal Services and the Tule River Indian Tribe are the AB 1369 sponsors, and it is also supported by the Fresno Unified School District, ACLU California Action, Habematolel Pomo of Upper Lake and Indigenous Justice.
AB 1369 was approved on a 7-0 vote and will next go to the Senate Judiciary Committee.
###
Assemblymember James C. Ramos proudly represents the 45th Assembly district that includes the Cities of Fontana, Highland, Mentone, Redlands, Rialto and San Bernardino. He is the first and only California Native American serving in the state’s legislature. Ramos chairs the Assembly Budget Subcommittee #6 on Public Safety.