SACRAMENTO, CA
– This week,
Assemblymember Mark González (D-Los Angeles)
introduced
AB 380
, a bill that extends price gouging protections for hotels, food, as well as other essential goods and services, for the full duration of an emergency declaration. This measure aligns the duration of these protections with those already in place for rental housing – ensuring Californians are safeguarded from predatory price gouging during times of crisis.
"Residents across Los Angeles continue to suffer in the aftermath of these devastating fires. When we see rental prices skyrocketing up to 300% across the county, the State needs to step in and take immediate action," said
Assemblymember González
. "Californians need to focus on healing and rebuilding – not being exploited by bad actors seeking to take advantage of those in crisis."
"During times of crisis, we must ensure that vulnerable communities are not taken advantage of," said joint author
Assemblymember Mike A. Gipson (D-Carson)
. "This bill is a critical step in providing protections for all Californians, ensuring that essential goods and services remain affordable while families focus on rebuilding and healing. We stand together to prevent price gouging and safeguard the well-being of our residents."
"After a disaster, no one in Los Angeles County should have to worry about being taken advantage of by predatory price gouging,"
said Los Angeles County Supervisor Lindsey P. Horvath.
"The fires have already displaced thousands of Angelenos, and we must act urgently to protect renters, residents, and small business owners from skyrocketing prices. AB 380 ensures price gouging protections last as long as an emergency, so our communities remain protected as they begin to recover. I'm grateful to Assemblymember Mark González for championing this effort to put our impacted residents first."
"Thank you Assemblymember Gonzalez for introducing this critical legislation. Essential goods shouldn't come with a corporate surcharge," said
Los Angeles City Councilmember Hugo Soto-Martinez
. "We need our price-gouging protections to last as long as the emergency."
"In the communities we work in, we've often seen landlords gouging tenants for exorbitant rents, and it's infuriating to see that in a time of crisis that behavior has become even more widespread," said
Cynthia Strathmann, Ph.D., Executive Director of Strategic Actions for a Just Economy (SAJE)
. "We should be coming together to help those in need, not trying to profit from the misery of others. This type of behavior must be stopped".
Price gouging refers to sellers unfairly inflating prices for essential goods and services during declared emergencies. Under current law, protections against price gouging in rental housing last throughout an emergency declaration, but protections for other goods and services generally last only 30 days – with a 180-day period for reconstruction and cleanup services – unless extended by the Governor or local officials.
AB 380
aims to provide certainty and long-term safeguards for vulnerable communities, ensuring stability as they rebuild after disasters.
Assemblymember Mark González is the Assembly Majority Whip. He represents the 54th Assembly District composed of the cities of Los Angeles, Commerce, Montebello, and Vernon.
CONTACT:
Jaspreet Johl; Jaspreet.Johl@asm.ca.gov; (916) 335-8871