SACRAMENTO, CA
– Assistant Speaker pro Tempore Celeste Rodriguez (D-San Fernando) joins Assemblymember Pilar Schiavo on a tour of Chiquita Canyon to learn more about the local health impacts to the community. In addition, they have introduced AB 1129, a bill that would make it easier for a Local Public Health Officer (LHO) to implement a local birth anomalies reporting program—a change that will allow communities to better meet local healthcare needs. See their statements below:
“I took a tour of a location that has an ongoing environmental challenges that can pose a health risk to communities in Los Angeles County. The collection of public health data is critical and can be a valuable tool that allows us to track health impacts in communities,
said Assistant Speaker pro Tempore Celeste Rodriguez. “
This is why I have introduced AB 1129, which aims to expand community public health data that is made available. Specifically, it gives health jurisdictions the option to implement a local birth anomalies reporting program. If communities have this data available, it can inform local healthcare needs and uncover challenges affecting the health of newborns and infants.”
“Ensuring every family has access to the healthcare resources and information they need is a fundamental public health priority. AB 1129 will empower local health officials to track birth anomalies and identify potential environmental health risks, helping communities respond more effectively to emerging concerns. With ongoing issues like those surrounding the burning Chiquita Canyon Landfill that’s releasing known cancer causing chemicals into the surrounding community, having localized data is more important than ever to protect families and protect public health,”
said Assemblymember Pilar Schiavo.
AB 1129 has been referred to Assembly Health Committee. The hearing date is currently pending.
Assemblywoman Rodriguez represents the 43
rd
Assembly District, which includes the City of San Fernando and communities across the Northeast San Fernando Valley, including Arleta, Sun Valley, Sylmar, Pacoima, Panorama City, North Hollywood, Valley Glen, Lake View Terrace, Mission Hills and North Hills.
For more information, visit the website of Assemblywoman Celeste Rodriguez at
https://a43.asmdc.org/
###