SACRAMENTO, Calif.
— A California lawmaker has introduced legislation that would bar colleges and universities from punishing students who call 911 for help during a drug overdose. Currently students who are found to be in the presence of drugs can be expelled or suspended which strongly discourages students from calling 911. AB 602 will help combat rising deaths from drugs contaminated with fentanyl by encouraging students to immediately seek help from medical authorities as soon as they find a fellow student overdosing.
Assembly Bill 602, introduced by Assemblymember Matt Haney, a San Francisco Democrat, would prohibit schools from issuing disciplinary actions such as suspension, probation or expulsion to students who seek help or experience an overdose. Instead, the bill would require institutions to connect those students with support services, including counseling and overdose education.
“No student should have to choose between saving a life and continuing their education,” Haney said. “During an overdose any hesitation can be deadly. AB 602 makes it clear that calling 911 will never cost you your academic future.”
The legislation comes amid a sharp rise in opioid-related deaths across California, fueled in large part by fentanyl. More than 7,000 Californians died from overdoses in 2022, according to state data.
While California’s Good Samaritan law protects individuals from criminal charges when seeking help during an overdose, it does not shield students from academic penalties — a gap Haney’s bill seeks to close.
Advocates say fear of university discipline can deter students from calling 911, especially on campuses where policies around drug-related emergencies are vague or inconsistently enforced. Although some University of California and California State University campuses have medical amnesty rules, they often apply only to alcohol-related incidents.
At UC Berkeley, student TJ McGee said he was placed on disciplinary probation after surviving an overdose, an experience he describes as isolating and stigmatizing.
“I’ve seen firsthand how fear of punishment stops people from getting help,” McGee said. “AB 602 is about making sure students aren’t penalized for doing the right thing — or simply for surviving.”
The bill would also require colleges to establish formal policies protecting students in overdose situations and provide access to harm-reduction resources, rather than imposing disciplinary measures.
“Especially with the rise of fentanyl related poisonings among young people, where a person takes a substance not knowing it includes fentanyl, we need this law now to protect young people and save lives,” said Assemblymember Haney.
Supporters argue the proposal could save lives by eliminating a major deterrent to emergency intervention.
The measure is awaiting its first hearing in the state Assembly.
###