SACRAMENTO
– As part of Women’s History Month, the California Legislative Women’s Caucus sponsors the annual “Woman of the Year” celebration to recognize outstanding women who have made significant contributions to their communities. This year, Assemblymember Jacqui Irwin (D-Thousand Oaks) has selected Dianne McKay as the 2025 Woman of the Year for California’s 42nd Assembly District. A ceremony was held on March 10, 2025, in the Assembly Chamber to honor McKay’s decades of service in business, education, and community leadership.
“Dianne McKay has been a dedicated leader in Ventura County for decades, tirelessly supporting businesses, nonprofits, and public institutions,”
said Assemblymember Irwin
. “Her unwavering commitment to strengthening community relations, advocating for education, and mentoring future leaders has left a lasting impact on our region. I am proud to recognize Dianne as my 2024 Woman of the Year for her incredible contributions.”
A respected businesswoman, McKay serves as the president of Mustang Marketing, a full-service strategic marketing agency based in Ventura County. She has been instrumental in advising clients on crisis communications, government relations, and strategic outreach. Beyond her business acumen, McKay is a dedicated public servant, having been elected three times as a trustee for the Ventura County Community College District, where she worked to expand educational opportunities and support student success.
McKay’s commitment to service extends beyond her professional roles. She has volunteered on numerous boards and committees throughout Ventura County, including as the current chair of the Ventura County Family Justice Center Foundation board, a former chair of the Greater Conejo Valley Chamber of Commerce, and a board member for Safe Passage Youth Foundation, United Way of Ventura County, and Ventura County Behavioral Health. Additionally, she has lent her expertise to advisory committees for the Museum of Ventura County and the Community College League of California.
Her work has earned her numerous accolades, including Top Women in Business honors from the San Fernando Valley Business Journal, the 2016 Education Advocate of the Year Award from the National Association of Women Business Owners Ventura County, the 2018 Woman of the Year Award from the Greater Conejo Valley Chamber of Commerce, and the 2020 Education Leader of the Year Award from Ventura County Leadership Academy. In 2023, she was recognized as one of the Top 50 Women in Business by the Pacific Coast Business Times.
In expressing her gratitude for the recognition McKay, a Thousand Oaks resident since 1972, stated, “As we celebrate Women’s History Month, I’m incredibly honored to receive this recognition from Assemblymember Irwin, someone I admire as both a leader in our region and as a longtime friend. I consider it a true privilege to contribute to our region through meaningful projects and policy-making and am constantly inspired by, and proud to be among, a strong community of women who work to get things done!”
Assemblymember Irwin’s website:
https://a42.asmdc.org
Assemblymember Jacqui Irwin represents California’s 42nd Assembly District, which includes portions of both Ventura and Los Angeles Counties; including all of Agoura Hills, Bel Air, Beverly Glen, Brentwood, Casa Conejo, Calabasas, Hidden Hills, Lake Sherwood, Malibu, Moorpark, Oak Park, Pacific Palisades, Santa Susana, Simi Valley, Thousand Oaks, Topanga, Westlake Village, and portions of Camarillo.