Victorville, CA
— Local entrepreneurship in the High Desert is receiving new support through a strong partnership between Caravanserai
,
Caravan Small Business Development Center (Caravan SBDC), part of the larger Orange County Inland Empire SBDC network (OCIESBDC)
,
Regina Weatherspoon-Bell, and Office of Assemblymember Juan Carrillo.
On June 23,
BizUp High Desert program
officially launched, offering a free, 10-week virtual training and consulting series for local small business owners and aspiring entrepreneurs. The program provides guidance on business foundations, financial management, branding, access to capital, and more — at no cost to participants.
While the current cohort is already underway, Caravanserai Project and the Caravan SBDC emphasize that this is just the beginning. The organizations plan to remain active in the High Desert, delivering more programs and tools to empower local entrepreneurs in the months ahead.
“The High Desert is rich with untapped entrepreneurial talent and vision. Through this partnership, we’re not just offering a program — we’re making a long-term investment in the people and potential of this community. This is only the beginning.”
— Mihai Patru, CEO, Caravanserai
"Providing comprehensive training and access to resources for entrepreneurs and small business owners is essential to building a thriving, sustainable economy here in the High Desert. When we invest in their success, we’re investing in the future of our entire community."
— Regina Weatherspoon-Bell, Board Member, Caravanserai
“Small businesses are the heart of the High Desert, and programs like BizUp High Desert provide the kind of meaningful, hands-on support that our communities need,” said Assemblymember Juan Carrillo, who represents California’s 39th Assembly District, which includes Victorville, Adelanto, and Hesperia. “I’m proud to support this partnership and look forward to seeing more local entrepreneurs gain the tools and confidence to thrive.”
The BizUp High Desert program is made possible in part by a grant awarded by the
San Bernardino County Economic Development Department
.
Assemblymember Carrillo’s district office, located inside Adelanto City Hall, is available to assist residents in accessing state resources and staying connected to opportunities like BizUp. Constituents are encouraged to sign up for his newsletter and follow @AsmJuanCarrillo on social media for updates.
To learn more about Caravanserai programs or to register for future cohorts, please contact
Sierra Sims
at
programs@caravanseraiproject.org
or visit
www.caravanseraiproject.org
.
###
Assemblymember Carrillo represents California’s 39th Assembly District, which includes Lancaster, Palmdale Adelanto, Victorville, and Hesperia. You can learn more about Assemblymember Carrillo at
https://a39.asmdc.org
,
Facebook
, or
Instagram
,