SACRAMENTO
– Assemblymember Ash Kalra (D-San José) introduced Assembly Bill (AB) 1362, The Human Trafficking Prevention and Protection Act for Temporary Immigrant Workers. AB 1362 would ensure the proper implementation of SB 477 (Steinberg, Chapter 711, Statutes of 2014) by requiring that all foreign labor recruiters (FLRs) register with the Labor Commissioner, not just those who recruit workers through the H-2B visa category. With rollbacks on worker protections at the federal level and changing border policies, AB 1362 is urgently needed to prevent human trafficking and protect law-abiding businesses.
“For too long, the vast majority of temporary foreign workers have remained unprotected and subject to the documented abuses of unscrupulous foreign labor recruiters. Businesses also risk falling prey to exploitative FLRs who use predatory recruitment processes,” said
Assemblymember Ash Kalra
. “AB 1362 will close a harmful loophole by ensuring all temporary immigrant workers, such as domestic workers, agricultural workers, and nurses, are protected against wage theft, human trafficking, and other labor violations.”
“With 350,000 temporary immigrant workers legally entering our state each year, it’s time for California to champion uniform worker protections,” said
Professor Stephanie Richard, Director Loyola Law School, Sunita Jain Anti-Trafficking Initiative.
“Safeguarding against fraudulent recruitment practices is essential to combat human trafficking and exploitation. While the federal government retreats from its duties and likely increases the influx of temporary workers, California has a moral imperative to step up. We must be the beacon of hope, implementing robust protections and sending a clear message that exploitation has no place here.”
“California is overdue in fulfilling the original intent of SB 477 and in light of actions at the federal level, we must take the lead to empower all temporary workers, protect law-abiding businesses, and prevent fraud, debt bondage, exploitation, and human trafficking throughout the state,” said
Ruth Silver Taube, Coordinator of the Santa Clara County Wage Theft Coalition.
“According to the Global Slavery Index, unscrupulous recruitment practices are a key driver of forced labor, leaving migrant workers vulnerable to debt bondage, contract fraud, and abuse,” said
Krysta Bisnauth, Advocacy Manager at Freedom United.
“While the federal government falls short, California has the opportunity to set a new standard—ensuring strong protections that prevent human trafficking and uphold workers’ rights.”
With the simple clarifying change proposed by AB 1362, it will accomplish the following:
Protect economic opportunity for law-abiding businesses that support workers’ rights and safety
Create clear definitions of human trafficking and forced labor
Provide guidance on contract language to prevent exploitation and human trafficking
Mandate safe living conditions for workers if provided
Outline procedures for companies to follow if they identify trafficking or forced labor occurring
Address the harmful and inaccurate ways in which labor trafficking is treated as less dangerous and less severe
Prevent fraud and misleading coercive practices that may include confiscating workers’ passports or other identification
Protect Californian’s safety by protecting workers and food supply chains
AB 1362 is co-sponsored by Freedom United, Justice at Last, Pilipino Workers Center of Southern California, Santa Clara County Wage Theft Coalition, and Sunita Jain Anti-Trafficking Initiative.
###
Assemblymember Ash Kalra
represents California’s 25th Assembly District, which encompasses the majority of San José, including downtown and open space areas in southeast Santa Clara County. He was first elected in 2016, becoming the first Indian American to serve in the California Legislature in state history, and was re-elected to his fifth term in 2024. Assemblymember Kalra is the Chair of the Committee on Judiciary and also serves as a member on the Housing & Community Development, Labor & Employment, Natural Resources, and Utilities & Energy committees.