Sacramento, CA
— After 17 years of tireless advocacy, families who have lost loved ones, survivors of drunk driving crashes, and public safety champions are celebrating a significant milestone as the California State Assembly passed AB 366, authored by Assemblymember Cottie Petrie-Norris. This landmark legislation would mandate the use of ignition interlock devices (IIDs) for all DUI offenders in California.
Drunk driving fatalities in California have surged by 53 percent since 2019, underscoring the urgent need for stronger prevention measures. In contrast, states that have implemented all-offender interlock laws have experienced a marked reduction in DUI-related deaths, demonstrating the proven effectiveness of IIDs in saving lives.
"AB 366 gives us a real chance to stop these tragedies before they happen. Thank you to the Assembly for advancing this bill. While AB 366 won't bring my kids back, it means something to know we’re doing everything we can to protect other children and spare other families the grief we live with,” said
Colin Campbell
, a DUI crash survivor who lost his two children, Ruby and Hart, in a collision with a repeat drunk driver.
"Requiring ignition interlock devices for all DUI offenders is a common-sense, proven way to prevent drunk driving and save lives," said
Assemblymember Cottie Petrie-Norris
(D-Irvine)
. "I'm incredibly grateful to my colleagues in the Assembly for recognizing the urgency of this issue and working to pass this bill. I look forward to continuing to stand with the advocates and survivors who have worked tirelessly to get us here and partnering with the Senate to ensure this life-saving legislation reaches the governor’s desk."
AB 366 would establish California’s first permanent, all-offender IID law, bringing the state in line with 34 others that already require these devices. It would also prevent California’s current pilot program from expiring in 2026 — should it expire, it would make California the only state in the nation without an IID requirement.
In 2023 alone, ignition interlock devices stopped more than 30,500 drunk drivers from starting their vehicles.
"Drunk driving destroys families and devastates our communities. I am proud to be the joint author of AB 366 with Assemblymember Petrie-Norris. This bill brings balance- protecting our communities and holding drivers accountable. It’s time California joins the 32 other states making Ignition Interlock Devices standard to keep our roads safe,” said
Assemblymember Rhodesia Ransom,
Joint Author of AB 366.
The bill is backed by a broad, bipartisan coalition of more than 60 organizations, including MADD, the California Association of Highway Patrolmen, AAA, trauma surgeons, public health leaders, and local prosecutors.
"We know IIDs work. We know they save lives," said
Patricia Rillera
,
California State Executive Director of Mothers Against Drunk Driving (MADD).
"These devices stop tragedies before they happen, keeping dangerous drivers off the road and protecting California families. With this new law, our roads will be exponentially safer."
"As a California Highway Patrolman, I’ve witnessed the tragic consequences of DUI crashes on innocent victims and their families," said
Jake Johnson
, President of the California Association of Highway Patrolmen. "I’m proud to support AB 366 because it demonstrates what it looks like to lead on public safety with smart, preventive policy. This is how we protect Californians before tragedy strikes."
AB 366 now heads to the State Senate, where advocates are hopeful California will finally join the majority of the nation in enacting this life saving policy.