SACRAMENTO, CA – Today, Assemblymember Damon Connolly (D-San Rafael) announced the conclusion of his third official “There Ought to be a Law” contest, which allows residents of Assembly District 12 (AD12) to propose new state legislation that could improve the lives of 38.9 million Californians, particularly those in the North Bay. After reviewing over 300 submissions from AD12 residents, the winning idea was selected from San Anselmo resident Gary Newman, whose submission highlighted his concern surrounding his mother’s struggle to receive a photo identification card after forfeiting her driver’s license.
“With over three hundred submissions with new bill ideas, the third year of my ‘There Ought to be a Law’ contest highlighted the passion of our community members in the North Bay,” said Assemblymember Connolly. “I am excited to have selected a common-sense bill that will help seniors by ensuring that they still have access to a photo identification card if they give up their driver’s license.”
“Thank you Assemblymember Connolly for the opportunity to submit ideas for ‘There Ought to be Law,’” said contest winner Gary Newman. “Once our California seniors decide driving and overseas travel is no longer a part of their lives, an expired California driver’s license or passport should not limit use for everyday needs!”
The contest-winning idea comes from a community member’s submission detailing his elderly mother’s struggle to obtain an identification card for day to day needs after forfeiting her driver’s license. A photo identification card can serve many purposes beyond driving or travel, including checking out a book at a library, banking transactions, picking up prescriptions, public welfare programs, retail transactions, and more. When seniors forfeit their driver’s license, they should not be penalized for no longer having an identification card in their possession. With this legislation, seniors will be automatically issued an identification card when they give up their driver’s license, and will be able to continue to utilize their ID without requiring a visit to the Department of Motor Vehicles.
###
Assemblymember Connolly represents the entirety of Marin County and Southern Sonoma County