SACRAMENTO, CA
– Assemblywoman Celeste Rodriguez (D-San Fernando) joins a community discussion in the Central Valley, bringing together local and state leaders to listen and learn how best to protect California’s immigrant communities and their contributions to the state and local economies. See statements below:
“We have strong immigrant communities across California that make our state great. In the face of the threats and attacks by the federal government, it is critical that we hear from service providers, educators and advocates that work to protect our most vulnerable communities every day. Today, leaders in the Central Valley lifted up the needs of those they serve, especially the need to build capacity through protecting and expanding funding and addressing the mental health needs during this difficult time by protect medical care for all. My colleagues, Assemblymember Soria and Assemblymember Arambula are champions on these two fronts and I look forward to supporting them in their work. I appreciate Speaker Robert Rivas for continuing these roundtables to inform the critical decisions we need to make in Sacramento,”
said Assemblywoman Celeste Rodriguez.
“We are up against a chaotic deportation agenda by the White House and Republicans in D.C. that will harm California’s economy, so we must work together to fight back. This President’s radical policy of fear threatens our immigrant workers, who pay billions in taxes each year and are the backbone of so many industries, and also jeopardizes our immigrant children, students and families. Here in Fresno, I stand with the groups and leaders on the frontlines, and we will defend our immigrant communities and their incredible contributions to California,”
said Speaker Robert Rivas.
“Simply put, I would not be here today if it weren’t for two hardworking immigrant farmworkers from Mexico who came here to give their children a shot at the American Dream. At times it was not easy for us, but we were still given everything we needed to achieve that dream. This is personal for me. The attacks on our immigrant communities from this new administration must stop. This roundtable will provide us with a unique opportunity to address serious concerns faced by our most vulnerable communities here in the Central Valley and throughout California,”
said Assemblymember Esmeralda Soria.
“I and members of my Fresno office have talked with many people in the immigrant community in my district, where recent Border Patrol actions have occurred. These Californians – our neighbors, friends, and coworkers -- are upset by what already has happened and fearful of what looms in the coming days. I’ve talked with students who are anxious that their parents may be taken away, or other relatives may be detained. We must protect our immigrant workers and families. We must ensure that they receive the constitutional rights and due process to which they are entitled. I also stand by the State Legislature’s recent approval to allocate funds to support and defend Californians threatened with deportation. Many of the people in our immigrant community have lived here for years or decades and paid their share of taxes. They have been integral to strengthening our State’s economy and enriching our cultural and social lives. We must stand for what’s right – we must stand with them,”
said Assemblymemeber Joaquin Arambula.”
Assemblywoman Rodriguez represents the 43
rd
Assembly District, which includes the City of San Fernando and communities across the Northeast San Fernando Valley, including Arleta, Sun Valley, Sylmar, Pacoima, Panorama City, North Hollywood, Valley Glen, Lake View Terrace, Mission Hills and North Hills.
For more information, visit the website of Assemblywoman Celeste Rodriguez at
https://a43.asmdc.org/
###