SACRAMENTO, CA
–
With a deep appreciation for California’s maritime legacy and a bold vision for its future, Assemblywoman Lori D. Wilson announced that she will introduce
Assembly Concurrent Resolution 83 (ACR 83)
tomorrow on the Assembly floor to formally recognize May 22, 2025, as California Maritime Day.
Today, we acknowledge California Maritime Day as a time to honor the state’s historic contributions to the nation’s maritime strength. From the wartime shipyards of San Diego and Richmond to today’s advancements in green port infrastructure, California has long been a leader in maritime innovation, labor, and economic resilience.
ACR 83 calls on public and private partners to reignite shipbuilding across the state by investing in sustainable infrastructure, workforce development, and policies that promote national security, environmental stewardship, and good-paying union jobs.
“California has always been a gateway to opportunity, and our shipbuilding legacy is no exception,”
said Assemblywoman Lori D. Wilson.
“As the global economy evolves, we have both the chance and the responsibility to lead the next chapter in maritime innovation. From green shipping corridors to resilient port infrastructure, California is open for business and ready to build. We are the innovation state. If America is going to rebuild its shipbuilding capacity, it should start and succeed right here in California.”
Quotes from regional leaders and maritime stakeholders:
“California Maritime Day is a powerful reminder of our state’s rich maritime legacy—from shipbuilding and seafaring to innovation and global commerce. As we honor this history, we also look ahead to a more sustainable and forward-looking maritime future. Cal Maritime is proud to be at the helm of this journey, preparing the next generation of leaders who will navigate, innovate, and shape the waters ahead.” —
Michael J. Dumont, Interim President of California State University Maritime Academy
“Revitalizing California's maritime industry is critical to supporting national security by maintaining a strong U.S. presence in the Pacific, essential for defense and geopolitical influence,”
said David M. Boone, Rear Admiral, Civil Engineers Corps, USN (Retired), President & CEO of San Diego Military Advisory Council.
“It is also crucial for boosting economic growth by creating jobs and enhancing trade efficiency. Furthermore, investing in sustainable maritime practices can position California as a leader in green technology, aligning with environmental goals and fostering innovation as well as strengthening supply chain resilience.”
“Mare Island has been a site for maritime activity for over 100 years. As times change, there is an ebb and flow to the industry,”
Stephen DiLeo, President, Mare Island Dry Dock, LLC.
“At this time, the need for maritime services is paramount and clearly illustrated in the President’s executive order as well as other initiatives. The jobs that will be made available for local Solano County residents number in the thousands to repair and/or build ships. We expect this to be a great boost to the community and to provide stability for decades to come.”
Each of these leaders brings a unique perspective on the importance of California’s maritime economy and the potential of revitalizing shipbuilding in our state.
The resolution calls for collaboration across all levels of government and industry to modernize shipyards, strengthen coastal economies, and lead in clean maritime technology. It also honors the communities that have shaped California’s maritime identity and recognizes the state’s capacity to lead the future of American shipbuilding.
More information can be found here:
https://a11.asmdc.org/california-maritime-day-bringing-shipbuilding-back-home