Assemblymember  Rick Chavez Zbur
will succeed former Assemblymember Brian Maienschein as Chair of the  California Rare Disease Caucus, with
Assemblymember  Diane Dixon
and
State  Senator Catherine Blakespear
serving as Vice Chairs.
SACRAMENTO –
Democratic Caucus Chair and Assemblymember Rick Chavez Zbur (D-Hollywood) will serve as the new Chair of the California Rare Disease Caucus, succeeding termed-out Assemblymember Brian Maienschein (D-San Diego). Joining him in leadership are new Vice Chairs Assemblymember Diane Dixon (R-Newport Beach) and Senator Catherine Blakespear (D-Encinitas). The caucus, established in 2017, plays a pivotal role in advocating for Californians affected by rare diseases.
"I am honored to lead the California Rare Disease Caucus as we work to elevate the voices of rare disease patients and ensure they are heard in shaping policies that directly impact their lives," said Asm. Zbur. "This issue is deeply personal to me, as my late sister, Jackie, battled ALS, a rare disease that affects thousands nationwide. Her strength and courage inspire my commitment to this work."
The Rare Disease California Caucus was launched to:
Bring public and legislative awareness
to rare disease issues;
Ensure that rare disease patients have a voice
in shaping policy;
Educate legislators and staff
about rare disease policy issues;
Provide opportunities for the legislature to
engage with the rare disease community,
including patients, academia, hospitals, the biopharmaceutical industry, and government agencies.
"I am honored to serve the Rare Disease Caucus in leadership with Assemblymember Zbur and Senator Blakespear,"
Asm. Dixon
said. "We have an incredible opportunity to raise awareness, support innovation and research, encourage advocacy and elevate the voices of Californians living with chronic conditions."
"Rare diseases, such as muscular dystrophy, cystic fibrosis and ALS, are devastating for the people who are battling them and their loved ones,"
Sen. Blakespea
r said. "I am excited to be Vice Chair of the Rare Disease Caucus to work on bringing more attention to these diseases and more support for the people with them."
"California Life Sciences fully supports the important mission of the California Rare Disease Caucus to champion the voices of more than 30 million Americans currently living with a rare disease," said
Mike Guerra, CEO, California Life Sciences
. "California's life sciences ecosystem plays an outsized role in developing breakthrough therapies and cures that provide hope for rare disease patients and their families around the world and this caucus is dedicated to advancing policies that allow more patients to have access to these life-saving treatments."
The California Rare Disease Caucus will continue to build on its mission to foster collaboration among stakeholders, advance research and innovation, and improve access to care and resources for Californians with rare diseases.
To learn more visit the California Rare Disease Caucus' official website:
CA Rare Disease Caucus
.
Assemblymember  Rick Chavez Zbur serves as the Democratic Caucus Chair for the  California State Assembly and represents the 51st Assembly District,  which includes Universal City, Hollywood, Hancock Park, West  Hollywood, Beverly Hills, Westwood, West Los Angeles, Santa Monica,  and other portions of Los Angeles.
CONTACT:
Vienna Montague, (916) 319-2051,
Vienna.Montague@asm.ca.gov