Inspired by the Story of Oreo, a Pomeranian Reunited with His Owner After Surviving for Five Days in the Debris of the Palisades Fire, the FOUND Act Not Only Protects Pets but Also Prevents Their Owners From Endangering Themselves by Attempting Unauthorized Rescues
SACRAMENTO, CA –
Today, Democratic Caucus Chair and Assemblymember Rick Chavez Zbur (D-Hollywood) announced
AB 478
,
the FOUND Act
—
Friends of Oreo Uniting During Disasters
—a critical new bill to ensure that pets are protected during emergencies and that local governments implement clear procedures to support pet owners during evacuations.  Sponsored by
Social Compassion in Legislation
, the bill was inspired by the heartwarming story of Oreo,
as seen here on the Today Show
, a Pomeranian who went missing during the Palisades Fire and survived for five days in the debris before being reunited with his owner.
"Pets are more than just property—they are family. When disaster strikes, no one should have to choose between their safety and their pet's survival," said
Assemblymember Rick Chavez Zbur.
"The FOUND Act ensures that local governments have clear rescue plans in place, so pet owners don't have to risk their lives to save their animals. While we've seen incredible examples of fire and safety officials working alongside the public to reunite pets with their families, as well as the extraordinary efforts of local animal shelters and rescuers , we owe it to pet owners across California to ensure that every city and county has a plan in place before disaster strikes."
Key Provisions of the FOUND Act
Pet Rescue Procedures
– Requires cities and counties to update emergency plans to designate procedures for the rescue of pets that are still in a mandatory evacuation zone.
Emergency Preparedness Resources
– Directs local governments to provide clear online resources on pet evacuation and reunification assistance, as well as a list of pets that have been rescued.
Extended Holding Period for Rescued Pets
– Ensures that any pet rescued from an evacuated area is held for at least 90 days before being adopted out, euthanized, or transferred—a significant improvement from the current 72-hour minimum—giving pet owners more time to reclaim their animals.
"Time and time again, we've seen animals abandoned or lost in the chaos of wildfires and other disasters," said
Judie Mancuso, Founder and President of Social Compassion in Legislation
. "This bill is about making sure no pet is left behind. It provides the necessary tools to coordinate rescues, support evacuees, and reunite families with their beloved animals."
The inspiration for the FOUND Act comes in part from the harrowing experience of Casey Colvin, a Pacific Palisades resident, who was not home when the Palisades Fire erupted and an evacuation order was issued. Determined to save his two dogs, Colvin attempted to return home—even renting a bike—but was stopped at a roadblock. CalFire Battalion Chief Brent Pasquat offered to go in his place and managed to rescue one of the dogs, but Oreo remained missing. That night, Colvin lost his home to the fire, but he never gave up hope of finding Oreo. Five days later, Colvin received a call—Oreo had been spotted on the remains of his property. Rushing back, he found his beloved pet waiting for him in the driveway.
"I was lucky to connect with Social Compassion and their rescue network. Without their help and the help of many others along the way, it's possible that I would've never seen Oreo alive again - I don't know how I would've survived that kind of heartbreak," said
Oreo's dad, Casey Colvin.
"There was no official procedure for me to rescue Oreo. I contacted the non-emergency police line and animal control, but neither was able to help me coordinate a rescue. I hope that with the passage of the FOUND Act, reunifications like mine and Oreo's will be the norm."
"Homeowners were out of town, at work, or simply running errands and unable to return home due to how fast the fire moved," said
Aaron "AC" Christensen, founder of Animal Advocacy Network, and animal rescuer
. "My credentials with the City of Santa Monica allowed my team to cross firelines and assist with evacuations, sit in on every first responder briefing, and cut through the red tape that was preventing other rescue groups and individuals from helping residents in other jurisdictions. The FOUND Act will help ensure other cities have emergency plans that allow rescuers like me to assist residents save their pets."
As California faces increasing wildfire threats, this legislation is a critical step toward ensuring that disaster response plans account for the safety and well-being of animals.
AB 478 will be referred to a policy committee in the coming days.
Assemblymember Rick Chavez Zbur serves as the Democratic Caucus Chair for the California State Assembly and represents the 51st Assembly District, which includes Universal City, Hollywood, Hancock Park, West Hollywood, Beverly Hills, Westwood, West Los Angeles, Santa Monica, and other portions of Los Angeles.
CONTACT:
Vienna Montague, (916) 319-2051,
Vienna.Montague@asm.ca.gov