Costa Mesa, CA
– Assemblywoman Cottie Petrie-Norris marked Women’s History Month by honoring Sirisha Bandla, Yulan Chung, Katie Webb Brundige, and Meghan Clem as the 2025 Women of the Year. The 7th annual Women of the Year celebration helps shine a light on women who deserve recognition for their extraordinary contributions and leadership in Orange County.
“I am honored to recognize these extraordinary women whose leadership and service have made a lasting impact in our community,” said
Assemblywoman Cottie Petrie-Norris (D-Irvine).
“Their work is creating positive change, uplifting those in need, and inspiring the next generation of women leaders to reach for the stars. Orange County is a better, stronger place because of their contributions, and I am proud to celebrate their achievements.”
“I am honored to be recognized as one of Assemblywoman Petrie-Norris’ 2025 Women of the Year,” said
Sirisha Bandla, Vice President of Government Affairs & Research/Technical Flight Development, Virgin Galactic.
“Every day, I am inspired by the work and innovations spearheaded by women in the field of aerospace. Thank you, Assemblywoman Petrie-Norris, for this recognition and a heartfelt congratulations to the other honorees!”
“I am proud to represent the South Coast Chinese Cultural Center, which has been serving the great Irvine community for 49 years,” said
Yulan Chung, CEO, South Coast Chinese Cultural Center.
“It is a tremendous honor to represent the outstanding women who are making a difference in our community, particularly Asian American women, whose hard work and unwavering commitment often go unnoticed by many.”
“We are truly honored and deeply humbled to be named Women of the Year,” said
Katie Webb Brundige and Meghan Clem, Co-Founders, RAD Camp.”
This recognition is deeply meaningful as it honors the collective effort of those who share our vision for inclusivity. Leading RAD Camp, a nonprofit dedicated to serving individuals with disabilities, has been one of the most rewarding experiences of our lives. It's a privilege to be part of a movement that fosters inclusion, empowerment, and equal opportunities for all. As mothers, we strive to lead by example, empowering our children to help create and enjoy a world that is inclusive and gives everyone the space to proudly express their worth.”
This year’s event was hosted by the City of Costa Mesa in partnership with Girls Inc. of Orange County, Girl Scouts of Orange County, and Vineyard Offshore.
About the Honorees:
Sirisha Bandla
is the Vice President of Government Affairs and Research Operations for Virgin Galactic, where she oversees legislative, regulatory, and government business priorities, as well as collaborates with research customers to conduct science and technology experiments aboard Virgin Galactic’s Spaceship vehicles. On July 11 2021, Sirisha made history by launching to space as a part of the Unity22 mission, the first-ever fully crewed commercial spaceflight. As a trailblazer in the space industry, Sirisha serves as a powerful role model for young women, demonstrating how determination and leadership can inspire and uplift women across all fields.
Yulan Chung
is the Chief Executive Officer of the South Coast Chinese Cultural Center and Principal of the Irvine Chinese School. Under her leadership, the Center has become one of the premier cultural institutions in the nation. She is the driving force behind the establishment of the Asian American History Museum of Orange County (AAHM). The Museum will serve as an important cultural amenity and attraction within Irvine’s Great Park, while also creating a new national model for multicultural harmony. Yulan’s vision and dedication empower women to forge new paths in leadership, showing how they can create change and foster stronger communities.
Katie Webb Brundige
and Meghan Clem
are the co-founders of Rising Above Disabilities (RAD) Camp, a nonprofit organization that hosts overnight summer camps for children and adults with developmental disabilities. RAD Camp is the largest residential camp of its kind in California, welcoming 220 campers, and over 800 volunteers each summer at Vanguard University in Costa Mesa. Katie and Meghan continue to play an active role as the “Directors of Awesome,” dedicating their time and leadership in a fully volunteer capacity. Their commitment to creating an inclusive and empowering environment has made RAD Camp a transformative experience for all involved.