Assemblymember Rick Chavez Zbur (right) Names JQ International, represented by Founder and CEO Asher Gellis (left), as his 2025 Nonprofit of the Year for the Fifty-First Assembly District on the California State Assembly Floor, Wednesday, May 21, 2025.
SACRAMENTO, CA –
Democratic Caucus Chair and Assemblymember Rick Chavez Zbur (D-Hollywood) announced
JQ International as the 2025 Nonprofit of the Year for California's 51st Assembly District.
The organization was recognized during the State Assembly's annual California Nonprofits Day celebration, with Founder and CEO Asher Gellis representing the organization in Sacramento.
Founded in 2004 and headquartered in West Hollywood, JQ International is a leading nonprofit organization dedicated to strengthening and celebrating the lives of LGBTQ+ Jews and their allies. The organization promotes community connection, education, and advocacy, with programs that include Shabbat dinners, Jewish holiday celebrations, youth leadership initiatives, and culturally responsive virtual support groups. All are grounded in Jewish values, especially
Pikuach Nefesh,
the imperative to save a life.
"JQ International is a powerful force for acceptance and community," said
Assemblymember Rick Chavez Zbur.
"Their work uplifts and supports LGBTQ+ Jews and their allies—not only in my district, but across California and beyond. I'm proud to honor JQ International as our Nonprofit of the Year and celebrate their leadership in building bridges between faith, identity, and belonging."
Each year, JQ International reaches over 13,000 LGBTQ+ Jews and allies through its direct services, events, and educational programming. Its work includes cultural competency training for Jewish institutions, community organizations, and schools, helping institutions across the country foster inclusive environments for LGBTQ+ individuals. Its annual
JQ Impact Awards
honors those who champion LGBTQ+ inclusion and leadership within Jewish life.
"It was a true honor representing JQ at this year's California Nonprofit of the Year Awards," said
Asher Gellis (he/they), CEO and Founder, JQ International
. "We are deeply grateful for the continued support from Assemblymember Zbur and his team and incredibly proud to be recognized as the 51st District's California Nonprofit of the Year. This acknowledgment affirms the impact of our work and inspires us to continue serving our community with purpose and dedication."
Assemblymember Rick Chavez Zbur serves as the Democratic Caucus Chair for the California State Assembly, is a member of the California Legislative LGBTQ+ Caucus California Legislative and Jewish Caucus, and represents the 51st Assembly District, which includes Universal City, Hollywood, Hancock Park, West Hollywood, Beverly Hills, Westwood, West Los Angeles, Santa Monica, and other portions of Los Angeles.
CONTACT:
Vienna Montague, (916) 319-2051,
Vienna.Montague@asm.ca.gov