FRESNO – Assemblymember Dr. Joaquin Arambula (D-Fresno) and the 31
st
Assembly District office will host four Community Health and Resource Fairs in Fresno County, beginning Saturday, March 15, at The Fresno Center.
Presenting free Community Health and Resource Fairs has been a district priority for Assemblymember Arambula since his election in 2016. The fairs are held each spring and fall throughout Fresno County to offer a convenient and useful “one-stop” approach to providing basic health services, health screenings, and resources information to people in underserved neighborhoods and rural communities. The information section covers immigration resources, education, legal services, social services, and much more.
(The COVID-19 pandemic forced the suspension of these fairs, but the Assemblymember and the 31st Assembly District office then focused on free COVID-19 testing and vaccinations as well as food distributions during that period.)
The March 15 Community Health and Resource Fair with The Fresno Center will feature additional services: free tax filing and financial literacy courses. The event also will feature free entertainment.
Assemblymember Arambula said:
“It
’
s vital that we serve people where they are, especially those who live in underserved and rural areas. By offering basic health screenings and information about a variety of meaningful resources, we can help everyone improve their health and well-being – and that has a positive impact on their families and communities.
“I look forward to our event with The Fresno Center and deeply appreciate all the dedicated partners and collaborators who have made these fairs a success all these years. I especially want to thank all the people who have attended and, I hope, found these fairs beneficial and worthwhile.”
Pao Yang, President and CEO of The Fresno Center, said:
“With all the changes in the new administration, it is more crucial than ever that the community come together to share resources. We are thankful to our local CBOs and especially to Assemblymember Dr. Joaquin Arambula to host our first community resource fair of the year at The Fresno Center.”
To learn more about The Fresno Center, go online to
www.fresnocenter.org
for more information.
Each year, Assemblymember Arambula collaborates with cities, agencies, and community-based organizations for each resource fair. Chief partners for the spring 2025 events are the Fresno State Mobile Health Unit, Poverello House, and the Central California Food Bank. The main sponsors for all the spring events are the Sierra Health Foundation and Anthem Blue Cross.
Here is the full schedule for this spring’s free Community Health and Resource Fairs:
Saturday, March 15, Fresno
– 9 a.m.to 1 p.m. at
The Fresno Center
, 4879 E. Cesar Chavez Blvd., Fresno 93727.
(Note: the Poverello House won’t be at this event.)
Saturday, March 22, Fresno –
9 a.m. to 1 p.m. at
Saint Rest Baptist Church
, 1550 E. Reverend Chester Riggins Ave., Fresno 93706
Saturday, April 5, Sanger
– 9 a.m. to 1 p.m. at the
Sanger Community Center
, 730 Recreation Ave., Sanger 93657
Thursday, April 10, Fresno
– 9 a.m. to 1 p.m. at
Proteus, Inc,
2841 Tulare St., Fresno 93721.
#####