SACRAMENTO—
It is a significant moment for California’s Coastal Commission.
Its mission, to protect and enhance the state’s 840 miles of glorious coastline, is as critical today as when voters established the agency more than half a century ago.
California State Assembly Speaker Robert Rivas, a lifelong resident of the Central Coast, understands the Commission’s important role in our sustainable future: The need for vibrant, accessible coastal communities that welcome and include all Californians, and the call to preserve the integrity of our coastal landscapes.
The Speaker, who represents coastal residents across four counties, believes it is essential for all coastal Californians — especially farm and agricultural workers who live, work and recreate along the coast — to have a seat at the table when deciding its future.
Today, Speaker Rivas is announcing the appointment of Monterey County Supervisor Chris Lopez to the Coastal Commission to ensure the Golden State’s beaches, cliffs, forests, ecosystems, and neighborhoods remain a jewel of the West Coast for generations to come.
“California’s coast is a national treasure, and we must protect this iconic landscape thoughtfully for the future,”
Speaker Robert Rivas
said. “It belongs to all of us, and should be open to more of us as a place to live and work. Agricultural communities and farmworkers are the economy’s backbone all along our Central Coast, and their voices must be at the center of decisions about the coast’s stewardship. Supervisor Lopez has spent his career serving the Monterey region. He deeply understands this part of our great state, and he has the experience, vision, and perspective that’s long overdue on the Coastal Commission. I’m proud to appoint him to this critical role.”
Chris Lopez, elected to the Monterey County board of supervisors in 2018, brings distinctive experience and expertise to the commission, rooted in his rural Central Coast upbringing and commitment to serving all residents in his community.
“As a proud son of rural Monterey County with deep roots in the fertile soils of the Salinas Valley, I am deeply honored by Speaker Rivas’ appointment to the California Coastal Commission,”
Monterey County Supervisor Chris Lopez
said. “Our coast is a vital lifeline for communities, economies, and ecosystems, yet it faces pressing challenges — from climate change to equitable access and the urgent need for workforce housing. I step into this role with hope, resolve, and a commitment to listen and lead. Drawing strongly upon my Latino heritage and experience, I’m ready to tackle these issues collaboratively, ensuring our coast remains resilient, inclusive, and a place where working families can thrive for generations to come.”
Environmental and conservation leaders from the Central Coast are praising Supervisor Lopez’s historic appointment representing rural Californians on the commission.
“There is no one more qualified to serve on the California Coastal Commission than Supervisor Chris Lopez,” said
Will Lewallen, chair of Big Sur Land Trust
, a nonprofit focused on preserving and conserving unique Monterey County landscapes. “He is a dedicated and trusted public servant who is committed to serving not just his constituents in District 3, but he brings that commitment to all in Monterey County and to all who are impacted by his statewide involvement. Supervisor Lopez is universally respected because of his sensitivity to the many challenges faced by his constituents, and he is respected by his colleagues because of his approach to solving problems through collaboration and cooperation. He will bring that same approach to the California Coastal Commission, and I am thrilled that Supervisor Lopez will contribute to protecting and enhancing California’s coast for future generations.”
Paul Robins
, executive director of the
Resource Conservation District of Monterey County
, also commended Supervisor Lopez’s appointment. “We have appreciated Supervisor Lopez’s commitment and support for our collaborative conservation work to help Salinas Valley farmers and other land managers do right by the land in a manner that balances environmental, social, and economic realities,” Robins said. “Given that, I anticipate he’d bring a valuable mindset and voice to the Coastal Commission.”
Sand City Mayor Mary Ann Carbone
, who has served with Lopez on several boards in Monterey County, says the supervisor always looks out for the best interests of all residents of the Monterey Peninsula. “As the first female indigenous Mayor in Sand City, I often speak with Mr. Lopez on issues pertaining to the indigenous communities, and he hears my voice as I speak for the people. I feel Mr. Lopez will make a wonderful addition representing our area on the Coastal Commission, and he will do a wonderful job representing all that he will represent. I look forward to many continuous years of working with him on issues to better our communities.”
Supervisor Lopez will begin his work as one of the 12 voting members of the Coastal Commission on May 21.
For additional information or to request a photo of Speaker Rivas with Supervisor Chris Lopez, please contact:
Speaker Robert Rivas Press Secretary,
Cynthia.Moreno@asm.ca.gov
###
Speaker of the Assembly Robert Rivas represents California’s 29th Assembly District, which includes all of San Benito County and portions of Monterey, Santa Cruz, and Santa Clara Counties. For a full biography of Speaker Rivas, click
here
.