Sacramento, CA
– Assemblywoman Cottie Petrie-Norris (D-Irvine) proudly announced that 10 of the bills she authored have passed the California State Assembly and are now advancing to the State Senate for further consideration. These measures reflect her ongoing commitment to addressing California’s most pressing challenges – from reducing energy costs and advancing clean energy to enhancing public safety and streamlining housing development.
Clean Energy & Affordability
AB 825
: Proposes a suite of policies to help reduce electricity costs and drive down customer bills, including strategies to address the main cost drivers: wildfire mitigation, infrastructure investments, and delays in permitting.
AB 881
: Establishes safety standards for CO₂ pipelines in California, supporting climate goals, job creation, and California’s green economy.
AB 915
: Streamlines local permitting and siting of renewable energy projects by providing local permitting authorities with financial incentives and technical assistance.
Public Safety
AB 366
: Requires that all first-time DUI offenders install an Ignition Interlock Device on their vehicle, which requires them to be sober in order to start their car.
AB 451
: Requires California law enforcement agencies to adopt standard policies for enforcing firearm-related restraining orders, ensuring guns are surrendered immediately or within 24 hours of being served with a restraining order.
Housing
AB 963
: Ensures that developers using taxpayer dollars on publicly funded projects are in compliance with existing state public contract and labor laws.
AB 1385
:  Ensures that new housing near disaster areas can be built more quickly by removing outdated covenants and restrictions that are no longer relevant.
Consumers & Governance
AB 344
: Allows drivers to use one account or transponder for all toll roads, improving convenience while protecting privacy.
AB 420
: Speeds up minor land transactions that delay housing and renewable energy projects by removing lengthy approval steps for non-controversial cases.
AB 550
: Allows Fish and Wildlife to process Incidental Take Permits when an “at risk” species petition is filed, reducing project delays and costs.