SACRAMENTO –
Ahead of a key vote on April 29, a coalition of survivor support organizations, law enforcement, statewide elected leaders, major city mayors, organized labor and federally-recognized tribes today urged Assembly Public Safety committee members to support Assembly Bill 379. The bill, authored by
Assemblywoman Maggy Krell (D-Sacramento)
, would mark a major overhaul of the state’s approach to sex trafficking enforcement by increasing penalties for buyers and creating a new fund for organizations supporting survivors.
"Human traffickers are selling young girls for sex,” said
Assemblywoman Krell,
a
nationally-recognized
sex trafficking prosecutor and former
deputy attorney general
. “AB 379 helps those girls get their lives back and penalizes the sleazy men who try to buy them.”
On streets known as “blades”, mainly in low-income urban areas, predominantly women and girls are subjected to extreme
violence
, inflicted by buyers and pimps. In Sacramento alone, more than 13,000 people were trafficked for sex from 2015-2020. The average age of entry is
16 years old
.
“Let’s be honest: if we don’t address demand, we are not serious about ending exploitation,” said
Sawan Vaden, the executive director of Community Against Sexual Harm Sacramento.
“You cannot have a sex trade without buyers. And those buyers aren’t harmless, they are often violent. The women I work with don’t just tell stories of being bought; they tell stories of being abused and discarded.”
Key provisions of AB 379 include:
Funding Survivor Support
: Establishes the Survivor Support Fund, directing fines collected from offenders to community-based organizations that provide direct services and outreach to sex trafficking victims.
Cracking Down on Demand for Commercial Sex:
The bill makes loitering with the intent to purchase commercial sex a misdemeanor, punishable by a $1,000 fine in addition to any other penalties.
Protecting Minors:
Ensures that the crime of purchasing a minor for sex applies in any case where the victim is under the age of 18.
Connecting to Resources:
Those charged with prostitution under current law for receiving something of value in exchange for a sex act, must be offered diversion for first and second time offenses, rather than criminal penalties.
For more information, read the report
Estimating Sex Trafficking in Sacramento County
and the AB 379
factsheet
.
What sponsors are saying:
Lieutenant Governor Eleni Kounalakis:
"Human trafficking is a $150 billion global industry that preys on the most vulnerable — especially women, children, LGBTQ+ youth, and foster kids. That’s why I’m co-sponsoring AB 379, a bipartisan bill that reflects a balanced, commonsense approach to public safety. This is about making sure that those who exploit the most vulnerable in our society are held accountable, while ensuring survivors get the support and resources they need to heal. I’m grateful for Assemblywoman Krell’s leadership on this critical bill and commitment to standing up for victims.”
State Senator Anna Caballero (D-Merced):
"California’s approach to public safety has evolved, centering victims and survivors and recognizing the need for prevention, not just punishment. AB 379 reflects that shift. It’s backed by a growing, statewide consensus that includes survivors, law enforcement, labor, tribal communities and everyday Californians. This kind of broad, bipartisan support sends a clear message: we must act urgently to stop sex trafficking and support those who’ve been harmed. In my district, I’ve seen how traffickers exploit isolation, poverty and youth. That’s why I’m proud to co-author this bill and stand with those fighting to end this injustice.”
Regina Cuellar, Tribal Chairwoman, Shingle Springs Band of Miwok Indians:
“Nationally, Native Americans account for 40% of trafficking victims, despite comprising only 3% of the U.S. population. These statistics are unacceptable, and the Shingle Springs Band of Miwok Indians remains steadfast in advocating for change. AB 379 marks an important step in confronting those who prey on Indigenous children and all at-risk youth. It also provides a meaningful pathway for young survivors to escape the sex trade through diversion programs that offer a fresh start.  The Survivor Support Fund—comprised of a $1,000 penalty imposed on sex offenders—will provide essential resources such as housing, mental health care, and job training to help survivors heal and rebuild their lives. This legislation stands firmly for minors exploited for sex, equipping law enforcement with necessary tools to target the buyers who perpetuate these crimes.”
Sacramento County Sheriff Jim Cooper
: “As Sheriff, I strongly support Assembly Bill 379, which strengthens penalties for prostitution-related offenses, targeting sex buyers and especially those who exploit minors through human trafficking. Human trafficking is a horrific crime that destroys lives and preys on the most vulnerable members of our communities through coercion, violence, and fear. Demand drives this criminal industry, and by holding buyers and traffickers accountable with tougher consequences, we can take meaningful steps to dismantle these operations and protect victims. Our children and communities deserve to be safe. I urge lawmakers to pass this bill and take a firm stand against human trafficking in our state.”
Sacramento Chief of Police Katherine Lester:
“AB 379 strengthens our ability to protect vulnerable youth and hold predators accountable. Traffickers thrive in silence, but with stronger laws, survivor support, and real accountability, we’re sending a clear message that exploitation has no place in our communities."
San Diego County District Attorney Summer Stephan:
"It's time our laws make it absolutely clear: children and adults are not commodities to be bought and sold. I’m proud to co-sponsor AB379 with Assemblywoman Krell to close unjust loopholes that have allowed traffickers and criminal buyers to exploit vulnerable teens with little accountability. This bill strengthens the tools for law enforcement to go after the predators who fuel California’s second largest criminal industry and humanely expands vital shelter and support services for survivors trying to rebuild their lives. Human trafficking destroys futures—this legislation is a step toward justice, protection, and hope for those who need it most."
Riverside Mayor Patricia Lock Dawson:
“AB 379 is a common sense approach to reducing sex trafficking by cracking down on the demand that bolsters this criminal enterprise while also supporting survivors by establishing a fund for victims of sex trafficking. As Mayor of the City of Riverside, I am grateful to Assemblymember Krell for taking on this fight on behalf of our communities.”
Key supporters:
Community Against Sexual Harm (CASH) (sponsor)
Love Never Fails (sponsor)
3Strands Global Foundation (sponsor)
California Lieutenant Governor Eleni Kounalakis (sponsor)
Sacramento County Sheriff Jim Cooper (sponsor)
Sacramento County District Attorney Thien Ho (sponsor)
San Diego Mayor Todd Gloria (sponsor)
San Diego County District Attorney Summer Stephan (sponsor)
Riverside Mayor Patricia Lock Dawson (support)
California Labor Federation (support)
Shingle Springs Band of Miwok Indians (support)
United Auburn Indian Community (support)
Yocha DeHe Wintun Nation (support)
California Nations Indian Gaming Association (support)
###
About Assemblywoman Maggy Krell
: Assemblywoman Maggy Krell represents the 6th Assembly District, which includes the communities of Sacramento, Arden-Arcade, Antelope, Carmichael, Elverta, La Riviera and Rio Linda. Earlier this year, Assemblywoman Krell hosted a human trafficking policy roundtable discussion with survivor leaders at the state Capitol. Krell also joined local law enforcement and the California Department of Justice in the announcement of the Sacramento Regional Human Trafficking Task Force, a critical step in addressing sex trafficking in the Sacramento region. Prior to being elected to the Assembly, Krell led the California Department of Justice’s anti-trafficking efforts and prosecuted major sex trafficking cases. She received a career achievement award from the National Center for Missing & Exploited Children for her work. Learn more about Assemblywoman Krell at
https://a06.asmdc.org/
.