[
SACRAMENTO, CA
] -- Today, Assemblymember Chris Ward of San Diego announced the introduction of AB 1070, legislation aimed at enhancing transparency, accountability, and representation within California’s transit agencies. The bill establishes two non-voting seats on transit boards—one for a representative from the majority labor union and another for a regular transit rider—ensuring that those who operate and depend on public transportation have a voice in governance decisions.
“
Public transit is essential to millions of Californians, and the workers who operate these systems and the riders who depend on them should have a seat at the table
,” said Assemblymember Chris Ward. “
By including worker and rider representation on transit boards, we can make more informed decisions that lead to better service, improved efficiency, and stronger accountability.
”
Additionally, the bill introduces new accountability measures to ensure that board members remain engaged with the transit systems they oversee. If a board pays its members for attending meetings, they will only receive compensation if they can prove—either with evidence or a sworn statement recorded by the board clerk—that they personally used the transit system for at least one hour or took four trips that month.
Currently, transit boards often lack direct input from the frontline workers and riders who experience firsthand the challenges and opportunities within the system. Without these perspectives, critical decisions related to service, operations, and labor conditions may not reflect the realities of those most affected.
AB 1070 would require every California transit board to have a non-voting labor representative chosen by the majority union and a non-voting rider selected transparently. While they can’t vote, their input would help address issues like service reliability, worker safety, and affordability.
“
The Amalgamated Transit Union thanks Assembly Member Ward for his recognition of the importance of worker participation in public transit governance
,” said Jeff Shaffer Chairman of California Conference Board of the Amalgamated Transit Union. “
AB 1070 will ensure that the transit employee and union perspective is considered in key decisions affecting the quality of service that each California public transit system provides.
”
***For media inquiries, contact Anthony Reyes: Anthony.Reyes@asm.ca.gov***