(SACRAMENTO) - Assemblymember Steve Bennett (D-Ventura) introduced AB 1225 to establish an Accessibility Advisory Committee under the state's Department of Parks & Recreation to support the Director in making informed decisions on accessibility in the state parks system.
California's State Parks system
began with what is now Yosemite Valley and Mariposa Grove in 1864
, which in 1906 would be transferred to the National Parks system. With California's oldest state park
Big Basin Redwoods established in 1902
, much of the state parks' trails and public access planning well pre-dates the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) which passed recently in 1990.
Since the turn of the century, we have seen major advancements towards the inclusion of disabled people in public society. However, the remnants of overlooking this underrepresented demographic continues to affect all visitors of our parks. Thus, a dedicated advisory body to support the Director of California State Parks in enhancing accessibility for the state's lands can be helpful in remedying the systemic issue.
"When we say our public spaces are for everybody, it is for
every body
," said
Assemblymember Steve Bennett
. "This Advisory Committee will bring valuable, lived experience to the future of our parks and beaches. I look forward to seeing our state system be more accessible to people of all abilities."
"Disability Rights California is thrilled to be a proud sponsor of AB 1225 (Bennett).  We are very grateful for Assemblymember Bennett's leadership on these issues throughout his career and being the author for this bill. AB 1225 (Bennett) is a perfect example of "nothing without us." As a wheelchair user, I am thrilled to know that we are advocating so that the disability community can be at the decision making table to make parks and beaches more accessible for all Californians," said
Eric Harris, Associate Executive Director of External Affairs at Disability Rights California
.
"An Accessibility Advisory Committee is long overdue and will help improve access in California's State Parks for all," said
Jennifer Griffin, Executive Director of Access Central Coast
.
"I am excited to see a priority being put on accessibility by Assemblymember Bennett through AB 1225," said
Dani Anderson, Disability Access Manager for the County of Ventura
. "Often, we as individuals with disabilities are limited when it comes to recreational opportunities. Efforts like this speak to the spirit and reality of furthering full access for everyone."
Assemblymember Bennett has been a major advocate for the establishment and preservation of public spaces, including leading the
SOAR
campaign and bringing millions of dollars from the state's General Fund to the
San Marcos Foothills
,
Mariano Rancho
, and
Meiners Oaks Park
.
Steve Bennett represents the 38th Assembly District, which includes Camarillo, Fillmore, Ojai, Oxnard, Port Hueneme, Santa Paula, and Ventura. He is chair of the Budget Subcommittee No. 4 on Climate Change, Natural Resources, Energy and Transportation.
CONTACT:
Michelle.Sevilla@asm.ca.gov