SACRAMENTO, CA –
Today, the Chairs of California Legislative Diversity Caucuses announced AB 715, legislation aimed at strengthening protections for K–12 students against antisemitism and discrimination.
This bill, whose principal co-authors include California Legislative Jewish Caucus Co-Chairs Senator Scott Wiener and Assemblymember Jesse Gabriel, California Legislative Black Caucus Chair Senator Dr. Akilah Weber Pierson, M.D., California Legislative Latino Caucus Chair and Senate Majority Leader Lena Gonzalez, and California Legislative AAPI Caucus Chair Assemblymember Mike Fong. It is jointly authored by Assemblymembers Dawn Addis and Rick Chavez Zbur.
This bill strengthens California's commitment to upholding safe and supportive learning environments by ensuring students are protected from discrimination based on religion, nationality, and ancestry. AB 715 is the product of collaboration between the California Legislative Diversity Caucuses. This bill sets the intent of the Legislature to strengthen protections against discrimination, including antisemitism in K–12 education.
AB 715 lays the framework to address increased incidents of antisemitism in K–12 education and foster safe and supportive schools for all students. This bill also strengthens the Uniform Complaint Process (UCP), increases accountability for local educational agencies, creates a state-level Antisemitism Coordinator, and ensures full K–12 compliance with laws preventing discrimination. Lastly, this bill strengthens, anti-discrimination protections related to nationality and religion. Together, these changes will provide enhanced protections and better resources for not only the Jewish community but all students facing discrimination.
This measure represents a much needed approach to addressing antisemitism in schools. The bill will be heard in the Assembly Education Committee on May 14, 2025. AB 1468 will be withdrawn.
"Every student deserves a welcoming, affirming, safe, and supportive school environment - and it’s our responsibility to make that a reality," said Assemblymember Dawn Addis. "Ethnic studies allows California’s students to see their communities reflected in the curriculum and, when done right, fosters multicultural understanding and respect. In the face of rising antisemitism - especially since the October 7 attacks - we must act swiftly and decisively. Anti-semitism and discrimination of any kind has no place in our schools. I'm proud to author AB 715 in collaboration with colleagues who lead California's diversity caucuses, and I’m deeply grateful for their partnership. Together, we will continue working to protect and uplift California’s diverse and multicultural student body."
"We have seen an alarming increase in antisemitism in schools across California that has grown significantly since the October 7 Massacre," said Assemblymember Rick Chavez Zbur. "Jewish and all students deserve to be safe, affirmed and respected in our schools and communities. AB 715 demonstrates solidarity among California Legislative Diversity Caucuses to resolutely stand with the Jewish community to adopt meaningful legislation to root out hate in our classrooms." On April 30, 2025, the Jewish, Black, Latino and Asian American and Pacific Islander Legislative Caucus Chairs issued the following joint statement that included the following:
The California Legislative Diversity Caucuses have always prioritized solidarity and we are firmly united in our commitment to combat hate and bigotry of all forms. In recent months, we have been alarmed by deeply troubling incidents of antisemitism in our K-12 public schools. This is not acceptable and cannot be normalized. Our Caucuses will not stand idly by while any community is targeted by hate.
MEDIA CONTACTS:
Vienna Montague (Zbur) |
vienna.montague@asm.ca.gov
Julianne Cravatto (Addis) |
Julianne.Cravotto@asm.ca.gov