SACRAMENTO, CA —
Yesterday, the California State Assembly passed Assembly Bill (AB) 468, bipartisan legislation that would provide law enforcement with better tools to crack down on looting and impersonation of emergency personnel during wildfires and other emergencies. The bipartisan legislation, authored by Assemblymembers Jesse Gabriel (D-Encino), Jacqui Irwin (D-Thousand Oaks), and Blanca Pacheco (D-Downey), responds to recent criminal activity in mandatory evacuation areas and communities devastated by the Palisades and Eaton fires. Among other important changes, AB 468 would allow prosecutors to seek stronger penalties for looting and impersonation, close existing loopholes that can hinder prosecution, and better protect communities during the recovery and rebuilding process.
What Assemblymember Gabriel Says
“Individuals who put our firefighters at risk and prey on communities when they are at their most vulnerable must be held accountable. Looters – particularly those who impersonate emergency personnel – create chaos and confusion, endanger residents and first responders, undermine public trust in evacuation orders, divert critical emergency resources, and victimize communities that already have suffered unimaginable harm. This legislation will provide law enforcement with better tools to crack down on looting and impersonation and encourage criminals to think twice before engaging in such egregious conduct.” -
Assemblymember Jesse Gabriel (D-Encino)
What California Leaders Say
“The devastation caused by the L.A. County Fires is unimaginable. Many people lost everything while others have been displaced from their homes. Those who are returning to a home still standing may be greeted with the realization that looting or theft occurred while they were evacuated. Recent media reports have indicated that some individuals were impersonating firefighters or other emergency responders for the purposes of these crimes. That cannot be tolerated, and we applaud Assemblymember Gabriel’s effort to establish firm penalties for these crimes.”
- Brian K. Rice, President, California Professional Firefighters
“Listening to our constituents in the days and weeks since the January fires, we have learned that their fear and confusion during evacuations were not only fueled by concerns of fire, but also from the threat of looting. Unfortunately, those fears were realized with dozens of arrests of individuals entering evacuation zones looking to re-victimize these residents. As we work on various ways to prevent and avoid another disaster like the Palisades and Eaton Fires as well as rebuild these communities, this legislation will speak to those concerns about safety and security within evacuation zones.”
- Assemblymember Jacqui Irwin (D-Thousand Oaks)
"When disaster strikes, no one should have to choose between following evacuation orders and protecting their property. This bill sends a clear message: criminal targeting of Californians during their most vulnerable moments will not be tolerated.”
- Assemblymember Blanca Pacheco (D-Downey)
“Assembly Bill 468 (Gabriel) aims to protect Californians, and I am proud to coauthor this important legislation. This bill, authored and supported by many of my colleagues, takes critical steps to address crimes such as looting during emergencies and impersonating emergency personnel during wildfires and other disasters. While most Californians come together in times of crisis to support one another, there are always a few who seek to exploit these disasters for criminal gain. The legislation we are supporting in AB 468 will impose harsher penalties to hold accountable those who take advantage of our state's most vulnerable moments.” -
Assemblymember Rodriguez (D-Ontario).
"I’m proud to co-author AB 468 and grateful to Assemblymember Gabriel for leading this vital effort to protect vulnerable communities devastated by wildfires. Our communities deserve to feel safe as they recover from disaster, and this bill ensures stronger protections when they need it most. Protecting our communities means they feel secure and supported—not only from the flames but from those who would exploit their hardship. Holding looters accountable is essential to uphold justice, restore trust, and send a clear message: no one should prey on families trying to rebuild their lives."
- Assemblymember John Harabedian (D-Pasadena)
Background on AB 468
In the months following the devastating fires, impacted communities have been victimized further by widespread looting. In Altadena, theft from homes has skyrocketed by nearly
450% compared to last year
. Residents have shared stories of multiple robberies on the same property, theft of historic and cultural artwork, such as local handmade tiles, and even an Emmy award. Directly following the fires, law enforcement arrested dozens of individuals for looting and impersonation-related charges, including two individuals from Oregon charged with impersonating firefighters in the Palisades Fire evacuation zone.
These actions pose significant risks to public safety and undermine evacuation efforts, leading to confusion and potentially deterring residents from following critical public safety guidance. Crimes like these endanger both the public and the first responders dedicated to protecting them. AB 468 will strengthen penalties for looting and impersonating first responders during a disaster, in addition to closing harmful loopholes that hinder prosecutors from pursuing prosecutions that accurately reflect the severity of the crimes committed.
The legislation now heads to the State Senate where it is expected to be heard in committee in the coming weeks.