SACRAMENTO, CA —
This week, the California State Senate Judiciary Committee passed Assembly Bill (AB) 1127, which would prohibit the sale of semi-automatic handguns that can be easily converted to a fully automatic machine gun with the use of a simple “switch”. Authored by Assemblymembers Jesse Gabriel (D-Encino) and Catherine Stefani (D-San Francisco), AB 1127 would ensure that the firearm industry is held accountable for their deadly lack of action to address the growing proliferation of converted automatic weapons. The use of “switches” has skyrocketed in recent years, and guns equipped with them are quickly becoming a weapon of choice for criminals. These devices are cheap, can be made at home with a 3D printer, and can be installed in minutes with only a screwdriver.
What California Leaders Are Saying
“As parents and lawmakers, we refuse to stand idly by while our schools and communities are being threatened by illegal machine guns,” said
Assemblymember Jesse Gabriel (D-Encino)
. “This commonsense legislation will ensure that the gun industry is held accountable and that we are doing everything possible to protect our communities from mass shootings. I am grateful to Assemblymember Stefani, Moms Demand Action, and Everytown for their steadfast leadership and commitment to this critical issue.”
“Let’s call this what it is: reckless greed from gun manufacturers who know their products can be turned into illegal machine guns. AB 1127 says enough is enough. If these companies won’t redesign their weapons to protect our communities, California will hold them accountable. I’m proud to stand with Assemblymember Jesse Gabriel to shut this deadly loophole down once and for all.” -
Assemblymember Catherine Stefani (D-San Francisco).
What Gun Violence Preventing Advocates are Saying
"No one needs a pistol that can be turned into a machine gun,” said Pedro Ventura, a volunteer with Moms Demand Action in California. “Banning Glock switches was a good start, but the threat has grown. These devices are easier to get and deadlier than ever. AB 1127 steps up by holding gun makers accountable. If they won’t modify the design, they can’t sell the gun. It’s that simple. We’re grateful to Assemblymember Jesse Gabriel for leading the way, and we urge the Senate to get this bill across the finish line.”
Background on AB 1127
Fully automatic machine guns are exceptionally lethal weapons capable of firing hundreds of rounds per minute. Unfortunately, some semi-automatic firearms are designed in a way that allows for an easy and simple conversion to a fully automatic weapon with the use of a “switch”.  While most handgun designs cannot be modified in this way, the select few manufacturers whose guns can be modified have refused to adjust their designs to prevent modification. The firearm industry has been aware of this issue for decades and has ignored pleas from across the country to prevent their firearms from being compatible with “switches”.
Law enforcement agencies across the country have reported an increase in recoveries of these parts and weapons equipped with them. The tragic shooting that occurred just blocks from the California State Capitol Building in 2022, which left six dead and a dozen wounded, involved one of these modified automatic weapons.
AB 1127 would encourage gun manufacturers to finally address this issue and prevent their guns from being easily converted into deadly automatic weapons by prohibiting the sale of any semi-automatic handgun in California that is easily convertible into a fully automatic machine gun.
The legislation now heads to the Senate Appropriations Committee, where it is expected to be heard when the Legislature returns from Summer recess in August.