Urge Swift Action to Pass the California Safe Haven Schools Act to Protect Immigrant Children
Torrance –
Assemblymember Al Muratsuchi (D-Torrance), Chair of the Assembly Education Committee, joined local school board members and education leaders from across Los Angeles County at Hawthorne High School in the City of Hawthorne to stand with and support immigrant students and families amid ongoing concerns over federal immigration raids. These education leaders highlighted the detrimental impact of fear and trauma on student learning and mental health, as well as on school funding, and called for urgent action to strengthen protections for immigrant students and their families, as well as sharing existing support services and policies.
"All children have a constitutional right to attend public schools, regardless of immigration status," stated Assemblymember Muratsuchi. "Unfortunately, recent federal immigration raids throughout California have cast fear over students and their families. Students cannot learn if they are living in fear of being deported or separated from their loved ones. That is why I introduced Assembly Bill 49, the California Safe Haven Schools Act, with Senator Lena Gonzalez (D-Long Beach) to keep ICE out of California public schools."
"By affirming student safety, security, and dignity in our schools, we are shaping a future where all children can thrive without fear and with a sense of full belonging—regardless of immigrant status," said Dr. Alma Castro, Former President, Los Angeles County School Trustees Association; Board Member, Lynwood Unified School District; and California School Boards Association Board of Directors. "Every child deserves the right to learn free from fear, and no parent should have to worry about immigration enforcement disrupting their child's education."
"Standing with immigrant students and families is not just the moral and just thing to do — it is essential to our state's economic and social well-being," said Theresa Montaño, Los Angeles County Office of Education Board Member. "As school leaders, we have a responsibility to ensure that every child, regardless of where they or their families come from, can learn in a safe, supportive environment. Like many Latinx/Chicanx families, my own is of mixed status, and I love and care for all my children and grandchildren equally. No child should ever be denied the right to a quality and equitable education because of immigration status. I will always stand with immigrant families and defend our schools as places of learning, not fear."
"Immigrant students and families are our friends and neighbors, and they deserve to know that our schools are safe spaces where they can learn, thrive, and dream without fear. Protecting that sense of safety is not just an educational duty — it is a moral imperative that shapes a more just and compassionate society," said Florencio Briones, President, El Monte Union High School District Board of Trustees. "Schools are the foundation of every community in America and must remain free from violence, threats, and harassment — especially from our own government. I want every student to know that the words ‘with liberty and justice for all' truly mean something, and that we will stand up to defend them. My message is clear: you belong here, you matter, and you are safe. We will not cower to authoritarianism — America has defeated fascism before, and we will defeat it again."
"This is about more than academics; it's about the stability and dignity every child deserves. Schools are meant to be equalizers, where opportunity is based on potential, not status. As Board President and the daughter of Mexican immigrants, I know the trust it takes for families to send their children to school," said Estefany Castaneda, Board President Centinela Valley UHSD. "That trust must be honored. Our message is simple: you belong here. Your safety, education, and dignity are our priority, and we will stand with you every step of the way."
Recently, the Trump administration's Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) conducted aggressive raids in Los Angeles County, including using Terminal Island as a staging area. These actions have instilled fear in immigrant communities, resulting in families being separated, students missing school, and a loss of trust in safe public spaces like schools. AB 49, the California Safe Haven Schools Act, seeks to protect undocumented students and their families by prohibiting immigration enforcement officers from entering nonpublic areas of school sites without valid identification and a judicial warrant or court order. This bill aims to restore safety and trust in schools as secure places for all children to learn and grow.
Assemblymember Al Muratsuchi represents California's 66th Assembly District, which includes El Segundo, Gardena, Hermosa Beach, Lomita, Los Angeles, Manhattan Beach, Palos Verdes Estates, Rancho Palos Verdes, Redondo Beach, Rolling Hills, Rolling Hills Estates, San Pedro and Torrance. Muratsuchi is Chair of the Assembly Education Committee, and a member of the Committees on Budget, Budget Subcommittee on Education, Higher Education, and Natural Resources.
CONTACT:
Bryan C. Singh, (408) 828-4079,
bryan.singh@asm.ca.gov