SAN JOSE — Assemblymember Patrick Ahrens (D-Silicon Valley) will be recognizing the District 26 Woman of the Year Angelica Ramos-Allen, Director of Policy & Communications for Grail Family Services, and President of the National Women’s Political Caucus of California, as well as celebrating women in leadership at a luncheon in San Jose.
WHAT:
District 26’s 2025 Woman of the Year Luncheon Celebration
WHEN:
Friday, March 21, 2025 – 11:30 AM to 1:30 PM
WHERE:
Maggiano’s Little Italy – 3055 Olin Ave., Ste. 1000, San Jose, CA 95128
PRESS RSVP TO:
Eddie.Kirby@asm.ca.gov
ABOUT HONOREE:
Angelica Ramos-Allen, JD, is a proud Filipina American woman and public policy professional with over a decade of experience in strategic planning, policy development, and coalition building. Through her work at Grail Family Services, Angelica works to promote children’s success and well-being. As President of the National Women’s Political Caucus of California, she champions women in politics. She also serves as Vice Chair of the City of San José’s Library and Early Education Commission, where she has led successful advocacy efforts to sustain and increase funding to city libraries in the wake of a global pandemic. She has previously served as a Court-Appointed Special Advocate (CASA) for Child Advocates of Silicon Valley, as well as a certified mediator and rape crisis counselor for the State of California and a Law Facilitator with Fresh Lifelines for Youth.
###
Patrick Ahrens represents the Silicon Valley in the California State Assembly. He was elected in 2024 after serving as a Trustee on the Foothill-De Anza Community College District Board. He serves as a Member of the Assembly Committees on Budget, Budget Subcommittee No. 2 on Human Services, Business and Professions, Communications and Conveyance, Rules, and Transportation. Assemblymember Ahrens is the Co-Chair of the California Legislative Technology & Innovation Caucus, and a Member of the California Legislative Jewish Caucus and the Bay Area Caucus.
Related Files
File
3-20-2025_asm_ahrens_woty_celebration_advisory.pdf