SACRAMENTO
– California may soon have another tool to reach our goal of conserving 30% of our coastline by 2030 with the passage of Assembly Bill (AB) 452, authored by Assemblymember Jacqui Irwin (D-Thousand Oaks). This bill will allow local governments to identify conservation measures to protect and restore the ecosystems and natural resources surrounding surf breaks.
“Our surf breaks provide tremendous value to our coastal communities as an economic and recreational resource,”
said
Assemblymember Irwin.
“And while California is home to a number of world-famous surf breaks including Malibu, Rincon, Trestles, and Mavericks, the state does not officially recognize them. AB 452 addresses this by empowering local governments to partner with community organizations to conserve surf ecosystems.”
The state’s goal to conserve 30% of our coastal waters and lands by 2030, referred to as “30x30,” is halfway accomplished with 16.2% of coastal waters under long-term conservation. However, there is a missing piece in bottom-up, community-led conservation programs as the majority of coastal areas under conservation have come in the form of strictly managed, state-identified protection areas.
California’s cherished surfing areas are being threatened by climate change, coastal erosion and pollution. A lack of official recognition of California’s surfing areas prevents the state from elevating urgently needed coastal stewardship opportunities.
The 30x30 initiative is intended to help conserve our coastal waters through voluntary and collaborative action with partners across the state to meet three objectives: conserve and restore biodiversity, expand access to nature, and mitigate and build resilience to climate change.
Surfing has long been associated with California’s identity as a coastal state. And for good reason: the surfing industry, almost exclusively based in California, generates more than $6 billion annually and our coast attracts millions of visitors every year. Our state regularly hosts international surf events, such as the iconic U.S. Open of Surfing and the sport will receive a worldwide audience as Los Angeles hosts the 2028 Summer Olympics. California designated surfing as the official state sport in 2018.
Save the Waves Coalition, a Santa Cruz-based non-profit with a 20-year history working in global surf conservation, is a supporter of AB 452.
"Over the last few years we have seen unprecedented threats, mainly from climate change, to our treasured surf breaks up and down the California coast,” said Nik Strong-Cvetich, CEO of Save the Waves Coalition. “We know these breaks generate hundreds of millions of dollars toward California's coastal economy, and underpins the state sport which hundreds of thousands of Californians practice daily. We need clear state policy that recognizes California's surfing natural capital, provides and supports long term management of our surfing resources, and helps adapt to the rapidly changing coastline."
AB 452 passed out the Assembly Natural Resources Committee without opposition and is on its way to the Assembly Appropriations Committee. This bill is a priority bill for the California Legislative Central Coast Caucus.