Assemblymember Rick Chavez Zbur presents Dr. Kathryn Jeffery with a 2025 Woman of the Year Honoree Commendation on Monday, March 10, 2025.
From Left: Assembly Minority Leader Heath Flora (R-Ripon), Assemblymember Rick Chavez Zbur (D-Hollywood), Santa Monica College Superintendent and President Dr. Kathryn Jeffery, Assembly Majority Leader Cecilia Aguiar-Curry (D-Winters), and Assembly Speaker Robert Rivas (D-Hollister).
SACRAMENTO, CA
- Democratic Caucus Chair and Assemblymember Rick Chavez Zbur (D-Hollywood) on Monday presented
Dr. Kathryn Jeffery, Superintendent and President of Santa Monica College (SMC),
as the
2025 Assembly District 51 Woman of the Year
in recognition of her exceptional leadership and unwavering dedication to student success and community resilience.
"Dr. Kathryn Jeffery is the kind of leader who not only uplifts her students but strengthens the entire community," said
Assemblymember Rick Chavez Zbur
. "Her steadfast leadership has guided Santa Monica College through both challenges and triumphs, ensuring that SMC continues to be a beacon of opportunity and access to higher education. Thanks to her vision and dedication, SMC remains the top transfer institution to the UC system for African American and Hispanic students—helping to break down barriers and create brighter futures. And when disaster struck, she made sure SMC was there for the community, providing support and resources for those impacted by the Palisades and Eaton Fires. I am incredibly proud to honor her as the District 51 Woman of the Year for 2025."
Dr. Kathryn Jeffery has served as Superintendent and President of Santa Monica College since February 2016, bringing with her four decades of experience in higher education. Under her leadership, SMC has
upheld its status as the top transfer institution to the University of California system
, continuing to send more students—particularly African American and Hispanic students—than any other California community college. Her commitment to expanding access to higher education has ensured that SMC remains a pathway to opportunity for historically underrepresented communities.
Beyond her impact on student success, Dr. Jeffery has guided SMC through challenges and natural disasters with calm and steady leadership. When wildfires devastated Los Angeles County in January, SMC stepped up as a critical community hub—hosting events and roundtables, organizing a massive resource drive, and providing essential support and resources to those affected by the wildfires.
Under Dr. Jeffery's leadership, Santa Monica College remains a leader in higher education and a beacon of opportunity, proving that institutions of learning can also be pillars of community strength and resilience.
Assemblymember Rick Chavez Zbur serves as the Democratic Caucus Chair for the California State Assembly and represents the 51st Assembly District, which includes Universal City, Hollywood, Hancock Park, West Hollywood, Beverly Hills, Westwood, West Los Angeles, Santa Monica, and other portions of Los Angeles.
CONTACT:
Vienna Montague, (916) 319-2051,
Vienna.Montague@asm.ca.gov