SACRAMENTO, CA — Today, Assemblywoman Pilar Schiavo voted to pass Assembly Bill 379, a bipartisan measure that creates a new felony charges against adults who solicit sex from 16 and 17 year-olds, closing a gap in state law and expanding protections for vulnerable teens. The bill passed with unanimous support.
Assemblywoman Pilar Schiavo, a survivor of childhood sexual assault herself, spoke from the Assembly Floor in support of the measure. Below is an excerpt of her emotional floor speech, where she tearfully shared her personal experience as a bipartisan group of her colleagues stood behind her in support:
“As a child, I was a victim of sexual assault. I faced my predator in court and put him behind bars when I was not yet a teen. This experience continues to shape my views and actions when it comes to protecting children and victims of crime, and is one of the reasons I will always stand on the side of creating more support for victims and stronger penalties for predators - especially those who target children and minors.
To be clear, I was in support of this bill in its original form, as I made clear to the original author when we first spoke about her bill at the beginning of the year. It should never be legal to buy a minor for sex - and that is exactly what we are united around today. And that’s why I have consistently supported making this bill as strong as possible, to ensure we protect 16 and 17 year olds - who are truly still just kids.
We have legislation before us, with a bipartisan supported bill, that protects minors by creating a new felony targeting predators. It also importantly gives law enforcement more tools to tackle our human trafficking crisis by allowing them to intervene and investigate human trafficking cases before it’s too late. Importantly, the bill also establishes a first of its kind fund to help victims, something I passionately support.
My record on this issue is clear: time and time again, I support legislation protecting victims and survivors and creating stronger consequences for predators. And as a child survivor, mom, and the representative of a district that cares deeply about protecting our youth - I urge an aye vote on AB 379.”
The original author of AB 379, Assemblymember Maggie Krell, said “Since speaking with the Assemblywoman in January about this bill, she made it clear that she shares my conviction that predators and John’s should be held accountable. With today’s vote, she’s keeping her word and continuing to stand for survivors and to ensure there are real consequences for predators. I look forward to continuing to work with Assemblymemebr Schiavo to make even more progress to protect our children and our community.”
AB 379 Joint Author Assemblymember Nguyen said, “AB 379 makes it clear that buying 16 and 17 year olds for sex is a crime, plain and simple. Speaking as the wife of a police officer, mom, and joint author of AB 379, it’s about justice, accountability, and giving survivors a chance to heal. This is the kind of change we need, and having worked with Assemblywoman Schiavo, I have seen her stand with law enforcement and victims time and time again. I value her commitment to ensuring criminals are held accountable.”
The Republican Leader, Assemblymember James Gallagher spoke on the floor in strong support of the bill saying, “I want to begin by just saying to my colleagues thank you. Thank you for restoring this bill essentially back to what it was.
AB 379 protects minors by creating a new felony targeting predators. It also importantly gives law enforcement more tools to tackle our human trafficking crisis by allowing them to intervene and investigate human trafficking cases before it’s too late. The bill also establishes a first of its kind fund to help victims. It now moves to the State Senate for consideration.
###
Assemblywoman Pilar Schiavo was elected to the California State Assembly in November of 2022 and re-elected in 2024 to represent the 40th Assembly District, representing the Northwest San Fernando Valley, Val Verde, Castaic and the Santa Clarita Valley. Upon her election, she was appointed as Assistant Majority Whip by the Speaker of the Assembly and now serves as Chair of the Assembly Committee on Military and Veterans Affairs. During her first term she brought back a record $93 million district investment in school and community safety, seniors meal programs, veteran housing, domestic violence services and creating local jobs. Prior to her election, Assemblywoman Schiavo was a Nurse Advocate and Small Business Owner who worked in the labor movement for more than 20 years. Throughout her career, Assemblywoman Schiavo helped deliver healthcare, including reproductive healthcare, to more than one million people. In the Northwest San Fernando Valley, she co-founded an organization that helped secure housing for Veterans experiencing homelessness, has delivered more than 50,000 meals to people in need, and increased resources to help keep our communities safe. Assemblywoman Schiavo lives in Chatsworth with her creative kid where they love to hike in the Santa Susana Mountains.