SACRAMENTO, CA –
This week,
Assemblymember Avelino Valencia (D-Anaheim)
introduced Assembly Bill 492, a measure aimed at enhancing local oversight and transparency of alcoholism and drug abuse recovery or treatment facilities. Assembly Bill 492 would require the Department of Healthcare Services to provide written notice to the local agency within which a licensee will operate, concurrently with the issuance of a license.
"The introduction of Assembly Bill 492 is a critical step forward in ensuring that our communities are well-informed and prepared to support recovery and treatment initiatives," said Assemblymember Valencia. "By providing local agencies with timely information, we can foster greater collaboration, improve public safety, and ensure that these facilities operate in a manner that best serves the needs of our residents."
Currently, local agencies often remain in the dark about the operation of these facilities within their jurisdictions. This lack of communication can lead to challenges in addressing community concerns, maintaining public safety, and ensuring that recovery and treatment programs are effectively integrated into local communities.
Assembly Bill 492 addresses this issue by promoting transparency and accountability, empowering local agencies with the information they need to better manage and support these vital services. By fostering a collaborative approach between the state and local agencies, Assembly Bill 492 will help create a more cohesive and effective framework for addressing alcoholism and drug abuse recovery.
“Cal Cities is proud to sponsor AB 492, a commonsense bill that will help ensure cities are prepared to transition new recovery and treatment facilities into our communities,” said League of California Cities Executive Director and CEO Carolyn Coleman. "Expanding the capability of local and state governments to communicate and coordinate with each other will mean that our cities can better meet the needs of those in our communities receiving care and residents alike."
Assembly Bill 492 is pending a hearing in the Assembly.
###
Assemblymember Valencia proudly represents the 68th Assembly district which includes the cities of Anaheim, Orange and Santa Ana. Valencia chairs the Assembly Banking and Finance Committee.