SACRAMENTO, CA – Assemblywoman Esmeralda Soria’s Nursing Education Act (AB 1400) has passed the Senate Education Committee today on a unanimous and bipartisan vote. This bill will help alleviate the critical nursing workforce shortage throughout California by offering Bachelors of Science in Nursing (BSN) degrees at select community colleges in California.
The Nursing Education Act (AB 1400) would direct the Chancellor of the California Community Colleges (CCC) to establish a pilot program to allow up to 15 community college districts to offer a BSN.
“In order to meet our nursing workforce needs and extend these career opportunities to Californians throughout the state, we must expand the role of our community college system,”
said Soria.
“AB 1400 will take the first steps in this process by allowing a limited number of campuses to expand their education programs to offer BSN degrees. This will expand the access and affordability of these degrees and demonstrate how these offerings might be expanded further to additional community college campuses.”
California’s current healthcare workforce is not equipped to handle the growing nursing needs of the state, especially in disadvantaged communities in more rural parts of the state. While California’s Community College system does offer associates degrees in nursing, the needs of the healthcare workforce more frequently demand a bachelor’s degree.
﻿
“AB 1400, while a pilot program, represents a critical step toward addressing the crushing student debt burden facing today’s nursing students”,
said Charmaine Morales, RN and President of the United Nurses Associations of California/Union of Health Care Professionals (UNAC/UHCP).
“Many of our members are among the $1.77 trillion dollars in national student loan debt. They’ve shared their struggles with me—paying off student loans for years, sometimes decades, simply to meet the requirements of a profession they love and are proud to serve in. As a union, we are deeply committed to solving this crisis,”
Morales said.
“AB 1400 creates a pathway toward a more accessible, affordable, and equitable nursing education system, and helps ensure we meet the growing workforce demands in healthcare.”
AB 1400 passed the Senate Education committee and now moves to Senate appropriations. Stay tuned on our website and social media handles for the most updated information on our current legislation.
Facebook:
@Assemblymember Esmeralda Soria
Instagram:
@asmesmeraldasoria
BlueSky:
@esmeraldasoria.bsky.social
# # #
Assemblywoman Esmeralda Soria represents the 27th Assembly District, which includes communities in Fresno, Madera, and Merced counties.