(Sacramento, CA) —
In a significant step toward addressing California’s housing affordability crisis,
Assemblymember John Harabedian (D-Pasadena)
has been appointed by
Speaker Robert Rivas
to Co-Chair the newly formed Select Committee on Housing Finance. Harabedian will lead the effort alongside Assemblymember Avila Farias as part of a broader Assembly initiative to tackle affordability through focused, forward-thinking action.
“Housing is not just about shelter—it’s about dignity, stability, and opportunity. I’m proud to Co-Chair the Select Committee on Housing Finance, which will explore bold, forward-thinking strategies to address the structural barriers driving California’s housing crisis. I thank Speaker Rivas for his bold leadership in creating space for this work. We have a chance to reimagine what’s possible, and to build a future where every Californian has a place to call home,” said
Assemblymember John Harabedian (D-Pasadena).
“We can’t afford to leave any housing solutions on the sidelines,”
Assembly Speaker Robert Rivas
said. “This Select Committee will take a hard look at how we finance affordable housing in California, and identify essential, scalable strategies that reflect today’s economic reality.”
The Select Committee on Housing and Finance will focus on identifying practical, innovative ways to improve how California finances affordable housing. From exploring new models like public-private partnerships to evaluating existing tools such as tax credits and housing bonds, the committee will work to shape policy solutions that expand access to housing and ensure long-term affordability across the state.
The committee is expected to engage with housing experts, lenders, developers and advocates to shape its recommendations.
#####
Assemblymember John Harabedian represents the 41st District composed of the cities of La Cañada Flintridge, Pasadena, Altadena, Sierra Madre, Monrovia, Bradbury, San Dimas, La Verne, Claremont, Upland, Rancho Cucamonga, Oak Hills, Piñon Hills and Phelan.