Addiction doctor and Assemblymember Dr. Jasmeet Bains sounded the alarm on kratom and 7-OH months ago; now federal regulators follow her lead.
(Sacramento, CA)
After Dr. Jasmeet Bains (D-Delano) introduced a bill to regulate and prohibit certain sales of kratom and 7-hydroxymitragynine (7-OH) products early this year, federal regulators at the FDA are catching up, proposing to take Dr. Bains’ commonsense approach nationwide.
“The reality is that it is perfectly legal for any child in America to walk into a gas station to buy gummy worms and walk out with an opioid packaged to look and taste like candy,” said Dr. Bains. “7-OH has the same effect on your body as any other opioid. The only difference is the FDA has failed to recognize it for what it is. That changes now.”
Dr. Bains introduced AB 1088 to prohibit the sale of kratom products to children, require the use of child resistant packaging, ban the use of marketing that appeals to children, and prohibit the sale of high potency 7-OH products. Last week HHS Secretary Robert F. Kennedy, Jr. and regulators at the FDA announced their intention to schedule 7-OH as a Schedule I substance. Other Schedule I drugs include heroin, LSD, and ecstasy which are all illegal to manufacturer, distribute, and dispense. The FDA indicated they will exempt kratom products, which naturally contain de minimis amounts of 7-OH, from scheduling.
In agreeing with the proposed scheduling of 7-OH, Dr. Bains also pointed out the contradiction in the Trump Administration’s recent signing of legislation imposing a $1 Trillion cut to Medicaid.
“They may be getting it right on kratom and 7-OH, but this is the same administration making the biggest cut to healthcare in American history,” continued Dr. Bains. “Regulate opioids yes, but don’t simultaneously reduce access to healthcare for people in recovery from addiction.”
# # #
Dr. Jasmeet Bains represents the 35
th
Assembly District in Kern County, including the cities of Bakersfield, Delano, Wasco, Arvin, Shafter, and McFarland