SACRAMENTO, CA – This week, the California State Assembly convened for the final opportunity for legislation to be heard in its house of origin. In total, Assemblymember Connolly (D-San Rafael) successfully passed sixteen bills out of the Assembly to the State Senate.
AB 1: strengthens the Safer from Wildfires program to offer insurance relief to people taking steps to harden their homes.
AB 258: increases future funding for fairs to improve operation and emergency response.
AB 393: protects civil service physicians and psychiatrists working in prisons.
AB 419: requires schools to post the California Attorney General’s Immigration-Enforcement Actions at California Schools Guide for Students and Families in the administrative building and on the website.
AB 456: improves the buying and selling process for mobilehome owners, ensuring that the process is completed in a timely manner and without interference.
AB 540: clarifies and reforms civil procedure to make civil courts more efficient.
AB 599: improves local notification of hazardous waste changes.
AB 754: improves water quality and prevents pollution.
AB 806:
provides mobilehome park residents the right to install cooling systems within their homes, and require reasonable temperature conditions in an indoor common area.
AB 846: streamlines wildfire preparedness permitting.
AB 929:
temporarily exempts small community water systems and managed wetlands from pumping reductions and fines under SGMA, ensuring that vulnerable communities and wildlife have safe and affordable water supplies.
AB 947:
ensures that all farmers can access the Healthy Soils Program, promoting climate-smart farming practices across California.
AB 1096:
ensures that the public has access to vital information about lead levels in drinking water in California's schools and child care facilities.
AB 1140:
creates a single-occupancy cell pilot program at four California Department of Corrections and Rehabilitations facilities, improving safety for inmates and correctional officers.
AB 1177: improves CalFIRE staffing, so they can better respond to emergencies.
AB 1440: extends the sunset on certain requirements of the agricultural pesticide worker protection program known as the California Medical Supervision Program. (Environmental Safety and Toxic Materials Committee bill)
These bills will now be referred to policy committees for a hearing in the State Senate.