Sacramento, CA
– Assemblymember Diane Papan and Assemblymember Chris Rogers have introduced a package of bills, in partnership with Sonoma Clean Power, to advance geothermal energy development in California. These measures will ensure the state remains a leader in clean energy while promoting economic growth and energy stability.
“Geothermal power is the key to achieving 100% clean energy around the clock,” said Geof Syphers, Chief Executive Officer of Sonoma Clean Power, a community-owned power provider serving Sonoma and Mendocino Counties.
“We need to pave the way for development of this crucial resource in California on the scale needed to fight the climate crisis, create thousands of well-paid union jobs, and drive local economic development. I thank Assemblymembers Papan and Rogers for their leadership on this critical issue.”
AB 526: Creating a Strategic Plan for In-State Geothermal Energy
California has set ambitious climate goals by requiring all retail electricity sales to be carbon-free by 2045 and for the state to reach net-zero emissions. While solar and wind energy play vital roles in the state’s renewable energy strategy, their dependence on weather conditions creates intermittency challenges.
"Geothermal energy is the key to California’s long-term energy stability and environmental responsibility," said Assemblymember Papan. "Unlike wind and solar, geothermal provides clean, continuous power, ensuring that we have a reliable energy source as we transition to a carbon-free future."
As the largest generator of geothermal energy in the United States, California has a unique opportunity to expand its geothermal infrastructure to support its transition to carbon-free energy. Despite its potential, geothermal energy currently accounts for only 5% of California’s in-state electricity generation—far below the level needed to meet the state’s climate goals. Given that next-generation geothermal projects can take a decade or more to develop, immediate action is necessary to ensure a sufficient in-state supply of geothermal energy in the coming years.
AB 526 will require the California Energy Commission to develop a comprehensive strategic plan for new in-state geothermal energy development. This Energy Commission will coordinate with federal, state, and local agencies to identify suitable development sites, assess economic impacts, and create a transparent strategy for public comment and review. A defined plan will attract investment, stimulate workforce development, and ensure the infrastructure needed for future geothermal projects is in place.
AB 527: Streamlining Geothermal Exploration
Geothermal exploration is the first step in developing new geothermal energy resources, particularly next-generation geothermal technologies. Recognizing that exploratory projects are temporary and, when conducted with high environmental stewardship, result in no permanent environmental harm, the U.S. Department of the Interior is seeking to expand a categorical exclusion from the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) for geothermal resource confirmation activities on federal lands.
AB 527 will allow geothermal exploratory projects that meet the same environmental standards, as determined by the lead agency overseeing the project, to be considered compliant with California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA). This approach mirrors the developing NEPA categorical exclusion and establishes a state-level mechanism to facilitate responsible geothermal exploration. With this change, Assembly Bill 527 will help accelerate the development of in-state geothermal resources and help California achieve its climate objectives.
"By passing AB 526 and AB 527, we are making a decisive investment in California’s energy future," said Papan. "These bills will keep California at the forefront of clean energy innovation, create good-paying jobs, and secure our energy independence while meeting our ambitious climate goals."
AB 531: Accelerating Geothermal Project Development
In 2011, the Legislature created a process for the California Energy Commission (CEC) to provide certain projects with expedited judicial review under the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA). The CEC calls this an “Environmental Leadership Development Project” designation. Under this designation, a site and related facility are subject to streamlining benefits related to CEQA, speeding up planning and construction of these critically needed power sources. The CEC’s certification is a one-stop shop so that these projects can avoid cumbersome state or local approval processes and speed up the state’s transition to a clean energy future.
AB 531 would make geothermal power plants and geothermal field development projects under 50 megawatts eligible to be designated Environmental Leadership Development Projects. Geothermal plants over 50 megawatts are currently eligible for this streamlined process, but most geothermal plants are 10 to 30 megawatts in size and therefore excluded from the Environmental Leadership Development Project designation.
"Developing more geothermal energy production is an important component of our efforts to diversify and expand California’s energy supply portfolio so we can reach our climate goals.” said Assemblymember Rogers. “I want to thank Assemblymember Diane Papan for her partnership on this important issue. These bills support more efficient development of geothermal energy production which will help enhance energy reliability and create more green energy jobs at the Geysers and beyond.”
Assembly District 2 is home to a portion of “The Geysers,” the largest geothermal field in the world. It contains a complex of 18 geothermal power plants, drawing steam from more than 350 wells. The Geysers produced about 20% of California's renewable energy in 2019.