As immigration raids ramp up under President Trump’s administration, Assemblymember Sade Elhawary (D-South Los Angeles) remains steadfast in her fight to protect families in Assembly District 57 and across the state. At the same time, she is facing an unexpected personal challenge—recent wildfires displaced her family, splitting her attention in ways she never foresaw. Still, despite the disruption, she continues to push forward, ensuring her district’s voices are heard in Sacramento.
“As a proud daughter of Egyptian and Guatemalan immigrants, I have always been deeply connected to our community,” said Assemblymember Elhawary. “Recently, wildfires hit close to home—my own family was forced to evacuate, leaving some displaced for the unforeseeable future and another family member permanently displaced. Like so many in our district, we are facing challenges we never anticipated. But even as I navigate these personal hardships, my focus remains on protecting our district from policies that target and terrorize our immigrant families.”
Assembly District 57, where about 17% of residents are Black or African American and over 70% of residents are Latino, has been disproportionately affected by the recent immigration raids. Families are living in fear of being separated.
“These raids don’t make us safer; they only tear our communities apart,” Assemblymember Elhawary stated. “Parents are afraid to take their kids to school, workers fear showing up for their jobs, and entire neighborhoods are under siege. We must fight back.”
In response, Assemblymember Elhawary is calling on residents to know their rights and take action:
You have the right to remain silent.
You do not have to open the door unless ICE has a JUDICIAL warrant signed by a judge—generally states “Search Warrant” or “Arrest Warrant” at the top
NOTE: This warrant MUST be signed by a federal judge or magistrate to lawfully enter a private residence without consent. An “Administrative Warrant” (signed by ICE) is NOT ENOUGH to enter a home.
You have the right to speak to an attorney before answering any questions.
If ICE Comes to Your Door
Do not open the door unless they show a judicial warrant
Ask the agents to slide the warrant under the door or hold it up to a window
Look for a judge’s signature on the warrant
If they do not have a judicial warrant, you can refuse to let them in
You have the right to remain silent and refuse to sign any documents without speaking to a lawyer
“Even as my family and I recover from the impact of the wildfires, my commitment to this fight remains stronger than ever,”
she affirmed.
“I will continue standing up for our district and work hard to ensure that every family in our community feels safe and protected.”
Assemblymember Elhawary and the Assembly are working with community leaders and legal aid organizations to provide resources and legal assistance to families facing deportation threats.
######
Assemblymember Sade Elhawary represents the 57th Assembly District, including the communities of Exposition Park, South Los Angeles, and Downtown Los Angeles, within Los Angeles County. Website of Assemblymember Sade Elhawary:
https://a57.asmdc.org/
CONTACT:
Rene.Romero@asm.ca.gov
(for District)
Grace.Dikho@asm.ca.gov
(for Capitol)