[Sacramento, CA]— Led by Assemblymember Tina McKinnor (D - Inglewood), Chair of the LA County Legislative Delegation, over 30 Democratic legislators from across California including Assembly Speaker Robert Rivas (D- Hollister) stood unified in calling for the de-escalation of words and actions by the current federal government that is putting residents across Los Angeles County in danger due to the President of the United States' unconstitutional actions in California.
Late last week, this federal Administration nationalized the California National Guard, without a request by Governor Gavin Newsom or Los Angeles Mayor Karen Bass and began positioning US Marines in the region in anticipation of escalated violence being provoked by the current president.
Assemblymember McKinnor did not mince words.
"On behalf of the LA County Legislative Delegation and the 10 million people that call LA County home, we have a simple message for the current President of the United States.
STOP.
Mr. President, stop violating the constitutional rights of the people of LA County. Mr. President, stop violating the due process rights of the people of LA County. Mr. President, stop provoking fear and violence in LA County. Mr. President, stand down the use of any federalized National Guard troops in LA County. Mr. President, stand down the deployment of any US military troops in LA County.
Mr. President, turn down the temperature. LA County is not your political punching bag. We are a strong people - we are a good people and we will not be bullied by you or anyone in your Administration that seek to divide or intimidate us."
The LA County Delegation will continue to monitor the situation unfolding in LA County and remain grateful to Governor Gavin Newsom, the CHP, LA Mayor Karen Bass, the LAPD, the LA County Board of Supervisors, and the LA County Sheriff for their leadership and tireless work to protect lives, property and the constitutional rights of people across LA County.
Video from today's press conference can be found here:
https://youtu.be/TJycbte9i3E