Irvine, CA
– On Friday, July 18, Assemblywoman Cottie Petrie-Norris and Girls Inc. of Orange County hosted the 2nd Annual IgniteHER Girls Summit at Irvine Valley College, attended by over 200 7th-11th grade girls from across Orange County.
“It was incredible to witness so many bright, motivated young women coming together to learn from trailblazers in our community,” said
Assemblywoman Cottie Petrie-Norris (D-Irvine)
. “This summit is about more than skill-building — it’s about helping girls recognize the power of their own stories. There’s no single path to success, and we want each participant to walk away knowing that their unique perspective is their greatest strength.”
The summit featured inspiring presentations from visionary community leaders and trailblazers. Keynote speaker Joone Kim-Lopez is the General Manager and CEO of the Moulton Niguel Water District, a public utility serving over 170,000 residents in south Orange County. She is recognized for her leadership in innovation, organizational excellence and workforce culture. Prior to her career in the utility sector, Joone served as a police officer for the City of Pasadena, where she received numerous commendations, including the Silver Medal of Courage for bravery under fire. As an immigrant from South Korea, Joone deeply understands the value of the American dream, an experience that shaped her commitment to building meaningful relationships and making service to others a central priority in her life.
“The IgniteHER Girls Summit embodies everything we need more of in this world—empowering girls to know their worth, find their voice, and lead with courage and authenticity,” said
Joone Kim-Lopez, General Manager and CEO of the Moulton Niguel Water District
. “When we invest in the next generation of leaders, we invest in a better, stronger future for all.”
Keynote Speaker Joone Kim-Lopez; General Manager & CEO, Moulton Niguel Water District
The IgniteHER Girls Summit, a collaborative effort between Assemblywoman Cottie Petrie-Norris and Girls Inc. of Orange County, aimed to help young girls realize their full potential. As the leading organization dedicated to addressing the multifaceted challenges facing girls today, Girls Inc. of Orange County demonstrated its leadership by bringing in experts to conduct workshops tailored to the specific issues girls encounter. These workshops were designed to address the current needs and obstacles girls face:
Smart Money Skills For Real Life:
Learn how to earn, save, and budget with confidence in this workshop designed to help you take control of your money.
Design a Better World:
Discover how to tackle real-world challenges with creativity, empathy, and purpose to make a difference.
30-Second Elevator Pitch:
Craft a standout 30-second intro with the help of mentors and peers in this workshop designed to help you shine in any professional setting.
Mindful and Mighty:
Learn simple mindfulness techniques to stay calm, focused, and confident while building resilience from the inside out no matter what life throws your way.
Science of Confidence:
Confidence isn’t something you’re born with, it’s something you can grow; learn science-backed tips and daily habits that help you speak up, stand tall, and own your worth.
Exploring Healthcare Paths:
Curious about a career in healthcare? This session features a healthcare professional sharing their journey, key skills, and the many paths into the medical field to help you explore where your future could begin.
“The IgniteHER Girls Summit reflects the heart of our mission—to inspire girls to dream big, lead boldly, and know their worth,” said
Lucy Santana, CEO of Girls Inc. of Orange County
. “When young women have the chance to hear from leaders like Joone Kim-Lopez and connect with role models who have walked different paths to success, they begin to see the endless possibilities for their own futures. Together with our community, we are equipping girls with the confidence, skills, and support to break barriers, blaze new trails, and create positive change in their lives and the world around them.”
Lucy Santana (Girls Inc. of Orange County), Jameeka Green Aaron (Headspace), Assemblywoman Cottie Petrie-Norris, Sona Shah (My Private Professor), Dr. Martha McDonald (Irvine Valley College), and Sybil Crum (Disneyland Resort)
The event concluded with a dynamic panel discussion featuring four remarkable community leaders: Jameeka Green Aaron, Chief Information Security Officer, Headspace; Cybil Crum, Vice President, Disneyland Resort; Dr. Martha McDonald, Vice President for Student Services, Irvine Valley College; and Sona Shah, Founder & CEO of My Private Professor. These inspiring women shared resonating personal stories, and candid insights from their early years and the challenges they faced to becoming influential professionals. The panelists' heartfelt and empowering messages left the young girls motivated and equipped with actionable strategies to pursue their dreams and make a significant impact in their communities.
The 2025 IgniteHER Girls Summit was made possible through the generous support of our sponsors, including Irvine Valley College, Women In California Leadership, the Automobile Club of Southern California, SoCalGas, and Kaiser Permanente. We are also grateful for additional support from SchoolsFirst Federal Credit Union, the Rotary Club of Irvine, Disneyland Resort, IKEA Costa Mesa, Orange County Water District, The Toll Roads, and Orange County Power Authority. Their contributions helped create an inspiring and impactful experience for the next generation of young women leaders.