SACRAMENTO, CA – Today,
Assemblymember Damon Connolly (D-San Rafael) introduced AB 258, which
would increase the amount of funding available for the Network of California Fairs.
“Our fairgrounds across California serve as hubs for events, local businesses, livestock, arts, and emergency response, and it is vital they receive the funding they need to maintain and update their facilities,
serve the community
and prepare for emergencies,” said Assemblymember Connolly. “Today, fairgrounds in Southern California have been called into action to assist as a relocation center for victims, humans and animals, of the devastating fires.  I have seen the same activity in my district when our fairgrounds played similar roles.”
“Fairs up and down the state are facing fiscal challenges, yet we never turn down the opportunity to help our communities and our State” said David Dillabo, Chair of the California Fairs Alliance.  “The increased funding proposed by Assembly Member Connolly’s AB 258 is greatly needed in order for our fairgrounds to maintain their facilities and provide opportunities to address our deferred maintenance issues.”
Since 2012, California’s 78 fairgrounds have been called into service more than 330 times, as COVID-19 medical sites, staging for emergency equipment, personnel and fire evacuations to those displaced by the wildfires. On average, 28 fairs are called into service every year to address emergency situations. Since 2010, the Siskiyou Golden Fair alone has responded to 27 separate incidents.  California’s fairgrounds provide safe public facilities specifically designed for animals, pets, and livestock during good times and bad.  At the same time, our fairgrounds attract millions of visitors for fairs and other events providing year-round economic, recreational, cultural and social benefits.
In September, Assemblymember Connolly took a tour of fairgrounds up the North Coast, having conversations around ensuring that these spaces have what they need to serve their communities. Under current law, the Governor’s budget includes an amount for the Legislature to consider for the funding of fairgrounds.  The amount is equal to ¾ of 1 percent of the gross taxable sales that occur on fairgrounds throughout the year.  This funding formula was created to replace about $32 million per year of
historical funding for fairgrounds generated through wagers on horseracing. Unfortunately, the current formula has not come close to providing the same level of support.
AB 258 will increase the formula to an amount
equal to
5 percent of the gross taxable sales that occur each year on our fairgrounds.  This increase will move us close to achieving the original funding goal established and envisioned
by the Legislature when it passed AB 1499 in 2017.  While it is not the only relief fairgrounds need in order to
continu
e providing the level of service their
communities are accustomed to, AB 258 will go a long way to securing a
reliable and positive funding future for the Network.
###
Assemblymember Connolly represents the entirety of Marin County and Southern Sonoma County