SACRAMENTO
—Today, Speaker Robert Rivas provided a brief update on the Los Angeles wildfires and action California State Assembly members are taking to advance legislation, and support firefighters, emergency officials and recovery efforts.
The Speaker delivered the following remarks during a meeting with the Capitol Press Correspondents and reporters:
The wildfires in Los Angeles are heartbreaking and devastating, foremost for residents and families who’ve lost their homes and who have been displaced.
You can look at the images that have been shared on social media. You can turn on the news. The scenes of destruction in Los Angeles are absolutely jaw-dropping and tragic. This is going to be one of the worst natural disasters in California history, and quite possibly in our country’s history.
The most important question for us right now is: How can we help?
Our Assembly is taking action. Many of my colleagues have made their way back to their districts in L.A. Right now, they are back home to do all that they can to lend a hand, to volunteer and to assist efforts at the local level, to ensure the local residents, organizations and nonprofits have the information and resources to get through this crisis.
Our Assembly is taking action today. The Assembly plans to advance legislation to support recovery efforts, including a bill focused on expediting insurance claims for homeowners.
Clearly, this is just the beginning. We are helping now – and we stand ready to do a lot more.
I’m in constant contact and communication with my colleagues who represent areas in Los Angeles to ensure that they have the full support and resources and information that they need.
I’ve been receiving regular updates from emergency responders and from both federal and state officials, as well.
When the time is right, I will visit the area to assess the situation firsthand and to better understand how we can help with recovery. I used to be a first responder and paid-call firefighter, and the last thing I want to do is get in the way of the emergency response work that is going on right now.
To the Angelenos impacted by this tragedy, we are here to support you through this crisis, through recovery and through rebuilding.
To the firefighters, paramedics, police and National Guard on the front lines, thank you for your bravery and dedication. You certainly are an inspiration to all of us.
Thank you.
###
For additional information, please contact:
Speaker Robert Rivas Press Secretary,
Cynthia.Moreno@asm.ca.gov
.
Speaker of the Assembly Robert Rivas represents California’s 29th Assembly District, which includes all of San Benito County and portions of Monterey, Santa Cruz, and Santa Clara Counties. For a full biography of Speaker Rivas, click
here
.