Sacramento — On Wednesday, Speaker Robert Rivas released the following statement:
“The greatest threat to health care in California is Republicans and their reckless budget cuts to Medicaid. Immigrant workers and families, who pay billions in taxes, deserve access to care, and I am proud to protect California’s progress expanding Medi-Cal. There are tough choices ahead, and Assembly Democrats will closely examine any proposal from the Governor. But let’s be clear: We will not roll over and leave our immigrants behind.”
Fighting Against Republican Cuts to Health Care
House Republicans in Washington, D.C., voted in recent weeks to take away $880 billion in federal health care funding, with most of these cuts coming from Medicaid and Medi-Cal, to pay for tax breaks for the ultra-wealthy. These cuts threaten health care access for seniors, children and families
Assembly Democrats are committed to fighting against these reckless policies and protecting health care for Californians.
Health Care Improves California Quality of Life
Since the passage of the Affordable Care Act in 2010, California has increased the rate of residents with health insurance. As a result of these actions, close to 94% of Californians had access to health insurance even before the most recent expansions. (
California Health Care Foundation
)
Health insurance coverage, and Medi-Cal expansion specifically, have played a key role in
reducing poverty in California
.
Studies show that in the absence of Medi-Cal, poverty among young children could increase exponentially. (
PPIC
)
Recent studies have also shown that Medicaid expansion has improved the financial performance of hospitals and other providers. This is particularly important in California, where numerous hospitals have been on the verge of closure in recent years due to fiscal insolvency. (
KFF
)
National studies have shown that coverage expansions through Medicaid (the national version of Medi-Cal) have helped reduce avoidable visits to emergency departments. (
Journal of the American Medical Association
)
###