The City of Costa Mesa has received state funding from Assembly Woman Cottie Petrie-Norris to expand the existing behavioral health care program at the Costa Mesa Bridge Shelter by assigning 15 additional beds.
The $750,000 in state budget funding secured by Petrie-Norris (D-Irvine) will assist individuals experiencing homelessness who have serious mental illness or substance abuse disorders.
These additional beds bring the total number at the Bridge Shelter to 30 since July of 2024, when the City received an award of $4.2 million in Behavioral Health Bridge Housing funds from the Orange County Health Care Agency to add 15 behavioral health care beds. Having these beds in the Bridge Shelter significantly improved outcomes for the participants.
“This expansion of services fills the gap needed to effectively transition people with mental health and addiction issues off the streets and into permanent housing through the city’s Bridge Shelter,” Mayor John Stephens said. “I’m very grateful to Assembly Woman Petrie-Norris for securing this funding to enhance our current partnership with the County of Orange and Vice Chair Katrina Foley. Also, I’m proud of the work the city’s Neighborhood Improvement Team does every day to save lives and enhance the safety of everyone in our community.”
This funding ensures participants receive the highest level of care to address challenges related to mental health and substance use, while working to secure and retain permanent housing. Over the past year, the City has provided a total of 53 individuals with high quality behavioral health care, and nine of these participants ended their homelessness by securing permanent housing.
“This investment is about taking care of our most vulnerable neighbors and making sure no one falls through the cracks,” said Assemblywoman Cottie Petrie-Norris (D-Irvine). “By expanding behavioral health services at the Costa Mesa Bridge Shelter, we’re helping people facing serious mental health and substance use challenges get the support they need to heal, rebuild, and find a path to stable housing. I’m grateful to the City of Costa Mesa for their leadership and proud to help bring these critical state resources to our community.”
The expansion does not increase the overall capacity of the Shelter but instead provides high-quality behavioral health care services to more Shelter guests occupying a behavioral health bed. In addition to the standard services offered to all CMBS guests, expanded behavioral health care services include:
A dedicated Case Manager experienced in serving clients with mental health and substance use challenges
Access to an Orange County Health Care Agency clinician for assessments and referrals to County resources
Access to licensed in-patient detox facilities and out-patient residential rehabilitation programs
Funding for security deposits, rental assistance, and household goods for participants who have secured permanent housing
Post-lease housing retention services to reduce recidivism and improve outcomes
The City opened a temporary Bridge Shelter at the Lighthouse Church in April of 2019 and moved to the permanent location on Airway Avenue in March of 2021. The facility serves over 200 individuals each year and has found housing for nearly 450 people since April of 2019.