SACRAMENTO - Assemblymember Tina McKinnor (D-Inglewood), Chair of the LA County Legislative Delegation stood with Los Angeles Mayor Karen Bass, Los Angeles Council President Marqueece Harris-Dawson and LA City Councilmembers Bob Blumenfield, Adrin Nazarian and Katy Yaroslavsky today to request an emergency state budget allocation of $1.893 billion to support the City of Los Angeles’ (City) disaster recovery efforts following the devastating fires this past January, which displaced thousands, destroyed businesses and damaged critical infrastructure.
The January 2025 Eaton and Palisades fires destroyed over 18,000 structures and displaced over 180,000 people. While the City continues its work at record speed to clear debris and begin the rebuilding process, the City will lose significant revenue this year from a loss of property tax and sales tax revenue. State financial support is needed to ensure that 3.8 million Angelinos can continue to receive essential city services they rely upon.
“This natural disaster is not a partisan issue - it is a people issue - and we will put the needs of the people of Los Angeles first,” said Assemblymember Tina McKinnor. “Just as California has stood up for the communities of the North State, the North Bay and regions across the state impacted by wildfires and natural disasters, now is the time for the State of California to stand up for the people of Los Angeles. Today’s budget request is essential to make sure the City of Los Angeles has the resources necessary to rebuild every neighborhood impacted by the devastating January 2025 fires.”
“Mayor Karen Bass is doing everything possible to successfully lead the recovery and rebuilding of Los Angeles,” continued McKinnor. “As Chair of LA County Legislative Delegation, I applaud Mayor Bass for her tireless work to prioritize rebuilding efforts and to demonstrate Los Angeles’ fierce and unwavering resilience to the world.”
A copy of the LA Legislative Delegation’s letter can be found here:
https://docs.google.com/document/d/1blX-YyAZ3Bo_-7FZsZ28Ez6OfTQ53VIH/edit?usp=sharing&ouid=102015990060417439548&rtpof=true&sd=true
The letter will be updated throughout the day as additional legislator names are added to this emergency budget request.
###