(SACRAMENTO, CA) —
In a major step toward safeguarding the heritage of California Native American Tribes, Assembly Majority Leader Cecilia Aguiar-Curry (D-Winters) announced today that Assembly Bill 52 will move forward as a two-year bill. AB 52 is designed to strengthen and clarify tribal consultation processes under the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA).
“AB 52 is a Tribal Cultural Resources protection bill, not a bill about the status of California Native American Tribes,” said
Assemblymember Cecilia Aguiar-Curry
. “If there’s a proposed development in an area where a tribe has ancestral ties, that culturally affiliated tribe should be consulted and their expertise on their culture and religion considered and respected. Not only is this the right thing to do, it’s the least we can do after our state’s troubled history of injustice against California’s first peoples.”
Building upon previous legislation, AB 52 will ensure tribal governments—recognized as the primary authorities on their own cultural heritage—play a central role in the identification and protection of Tribal Cultural Resources (TCRs). The bill will require lead agencies to meaningfully engage tribes early in the environmental review process.
“We fully support Assemblymember Curry’s decision to make AB 52 a two-year bill,” said the bill’s sponsors. “This additional time will allow us to engage more deeply with stakeholders, refine the bill language, and build broader consensus. We remain committed to being responsive to feedback, always with the goal of uplifting tribal governments and strengthening tribal sovereignty, while working in good faith to address legitimate concerns."
Despite groundbreaking progress through earlier legislation (Gatto, AB 52, 2014), gaps in implementation have weakened TCR protections, with non-tribal consultants and archaeologists often overriding tribal input. This has led to a rise in costly lawsuits and the continued threats to sacred lands and burial sites. AB 52 aims to correct these issues by requiring agencies to incorporate tribal expertise and cultural knowledge into the CEQA process and decisions; strengthening protocols for unexpected discoveries of TCRs during development; affirming the inclusion of both federally recognized and non-federally recognized tribes in consultation processes, aligning state practices more closely with federal protections; and reducing legal conflicts by ensuring meaningful, early consultation.
The bill is co-sponsored by the Pechanga Band of Luiseño Indians, Federated Indians of Graton Rancheria, and Habematolel Pomo of Upper Lake.
“We must do everything we can to help California Native American Tribes protect what is left of their culture and history. I see you, I hear you, and I’ll continue working on this bill so we can support you in protecting your rights,” concludes
Aguiar-Curry
. “At this moment, I feel the best way to accomplish this is to take the time, outside of the pressure of committee deadlines, to hear and incorporate the thoughtful feedback we’re receiving. Come January, we’ll move a bill forward that represents those thoughtful efforts.”
###