(SACRAMENTO
,
CA) –
Today, Assemblymember
John Harabedian (D-Pasadena)
expressed his gratitude to Los Angeles County Supervisor Kathryn Barger and the entire Board for their strong support of his wildfire relief legislation.
“This legislation represents a vital step forward in delivering much-needed relief to the victims of the Los Angeles County wildfires. By streamlining housing rebuild processes, expediting public benefit support reenrollment, and protecting homeowners financially, their vote shows that Los Angeles is united in expediting recovery for those whose lives and homes have been upended,”
said Assemblymember Harabedian
. “I am deeply grateful to Supervisor Barger and the Board for recognizing the urgency of this issue and standing with wildfire survivors.”
“I commend Assemblymember Harabedian for his thoughtful leadership and unwavering focus on Altadena’s recovery,” said
Los Angeles County Board of Supervisors Chair Kathryn Barger.
“His partnership has been instrumental in helping Eaton Fire survivors receive the resources and support they so urgently need. Together, we remain dedicated to standing with every affected constituent as we rebuild stronger and more resilient Altadena.”
The bills that were supported today include:
AB 239
-
State-Led Disaster Housing Task Force
Establishes a task force to support and strengthen post-wildfire housing recovery efforts through coordination and streamlining funding between the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), California Housing and Community Development Department (HCD), California Office of Emergency Services (OES), and local governments.
AB 493
-
Insurance Payout Interest Act
AB 493 ensures that homeowners, not lenders, receive the interest earned on post-loss escrowed insurance funds. This bill will apply to future funds or funds still held in escrow when signed into law.
AB 597
-
Insurance Payment Protection Act
This bill prevents unfair fees and price gouging by public adjusters (PAs), particularly after major disasters, and applies to residential properties and certain commercial properties.
AB 797
-
The Community Stabilization Act
This bill helps stabilize property values in disaster-hit areas by funding community projects that hold and manage residential land until it can be resold at fair market value.
AB 1032
-
Wildfire Trauma Recovery and Resiliency Act
AB 1032 recognizes the mental health impacts of wildfires and natural disasters, requiring health plans to cover an additional 12 behavioral health visits annually for those impacted by the fires.
AB 1161
-
Public Benefits During Disasters
Extends the time beneficiaries have to update paperwork during state-declared emergencies, ensuring they don't lose vital benefits like CalFresh and Medi-Cal while coping with a crisis.
#####
Assemblymember John Harabedian represents the 41st District composed of the cities of La Ca
ñ
ada Flintridge, Pasadena, Altadena, Sierra Madre, Monrovia, Bradbury, San Dimas, La Verne, Claremont, Upland, Rancho Cucamonga, Oak Hills, Pi
ñ
on Hills and Phelan.