SOLEDAD, CALIFORNIA—
Assembly Speaker Robert Rivas (D-Salinas) joined U.S. Senator Adam Schiff in the Central Coast last week, touring a regional farm, learning more about ag innovations, and discussing ways to continue supporting California’s ag workers and economy in the face of Trump’s tariffs and ICE raids.
During a visit to
Braga Fresh Farm
in Soledad, the Speaker and Senator learned more about sustainable farming initiatives and AgTech practices, and discussed issues such as workforce stability, food safety systems, market dynamics, and the impacts of Trump’s federal policies.
The visit underscored the importance of state and federal partnerships to support sustainable agriculture and food safety, which protect not just farm operations but also farmworker rights across California.
Both Senator Schiff and Speaker Rivas decried President Trump’s reckless tariffs and the danger of H.R. 1, the administration’s spending bill that would drastically cut Medicaid and food assistance programs like SNAP, which benefit farmers and their workers, while increasing funding for ICE raids that are ripping families apart.
What Speaker Rivas Said At The Event
“When it comes to California agriculture, we are the gold standard. But the unpredictability of Trump’s tariffs undermines our industry. The tariffs create chaos, as do the indiscriminate ICE raids, which cause fear and drive workers to stay home. All of this impacts our agricultural economy, our local economies, and our state economy. We must push back, and we need to ensure that we are protecting our businesses and workers, and representing the values of this state, and I appreciate Senator Schiff’s partnership in supporting our farms.”
What U.S. Senator Adam Schiff Says
“It was a pleasure to join Speaker Rivas on a visit to Soledad where we heard directly from local farmers, got to observe some of their innovative use of technology and sustainable farming methods, and discussed how we will continue fighting for farmers and farmworkers amidst the challenges they face on a host of issues, including the Trump administration’s immigration raids and on-again-off-again tariff policies.”
###
For more information, follow Speaker Robert Rivas at the following social media channels:
Instagram:
@caspeakerrivas
Facebook:
www.facebook.com/CASpeakerRivas/