SACRAMENTO, CA — Assemblymember José Luis Solache (D-Lynwood) is proud to announce that AB 466, his first bill to be signed into law, has been officially approved by Governor Gavin Newsom. Sponsored by Donate Life California, the legislation brings life-saving education about organ, eye, and tissue donation to students across California's public higher education institutions.
"Organ, eye, and tissue donation is one of the most powerful acts of compassion a person can give. AB 466 builds partnerships with higher education institutions to increase awareness and access for young Californians. I'm honored that my first bill signed into law will educate and empower more people to help save lives."
California currently ranks below the national average in organ donor registration, with only 49% of eligible residents enrolled. AB 466 seeks to address that gap by ensuring college students - particularly those who may not apply for a driver's license right away - receive information about the Donate Life California Registry through their schools.
Jim Martin, CEO of Donate Life California, praised the bill's passage:
"AB 466 is a meaningful step forward in normalizing the conversation around organ, eye, and tissue donation in California. Education and visibility within California's community and state colleges are essential to empowering individuals to make informed decisions, and AB 466 helps ensure that those life-saving conversations can happen more often."
The bill has also drawn powerful support from community leaders in Assembly District 62 who have personally experienced the impact of donation.
Lakewood Council Member Steve Croft, who is a recipient of donor bone tissue, shared:
"As a donor bone tissue recipient myself, I know what a tremendous difference it has made in my quality of life. That is why I am a registered donor and why I support AB 466. AB 466 will help increase awareness and opportunities to become Registered Organ and Tissue Donors among younger people. It's important that they learn about the Gift of Life and how their generosity could benefit so many people in need of organs or tissues."
Maria Jimenez, a Lakewood resident and OneLegacy Ambassador, also voiced her support:
"As a Donor Mom I am deeply grateful that AB 466 will be educating college students on the importance of organ, eye and tissue donation. Passing this bill will save the lives of many Californians. Thank you Assemblymember Solache for your passion and vision on this bill, giving hope to more than 20,000 people on the transplant waiting list."
Maria's son, Adrian, was a student at Long Beach City College when he passed away from meningitis at the age of 22. Having registered as an organ donor, Adrian gave the gift of life to three mothers in need. Maria has since spent nearly a decade as a OneLegacy Ambassador, sharing her story and educating students in health classes, medical programs, and hospitals throughout the region.
Across the U.S., more than 104,000 people are currently waiting for a life-saving transplant - and 16 people die each day while waiting. Each registered donor has the potential to save up to eight lives and enhance more than 75 through tissue donation.
AB 466 expands the visibility of organ donation education where it's urgently needed: on California's college campuses. It marks an important first legislative achievement for Assemblymember Solache - and a meaningful investment in community health, education, and hope.
CONTACT:
Chris.Mateo@asm.ca.gov