Santa Clarita, CA
– Assemblywoman Pilar Schiavo is partnering with the NAACP Santa Clarita Branch and the Boys & Girls Club of the Santa Clarita Valley for a Day of Service focused on supporting those impacted by the recent wildfires. The event will take place on
Saturday, January 18, 2025
, from
11:00 a.m. to 2:00 p.m.
at
19425 Stillmore St, Canyon Country, CA 91351
. This event will take place the weekend prior to Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Day, honoring his lifetime of service.
“With so many neighbors, family, and loved ones facing unimaginable hardship in the wake of the devastating wildfires, this Day of Service is about coming together to heal, rebuild, and strengthen our community,” said Assemblywoman Schiavo. “This event is an opportunity to support those in need and honor Dr. King’s vision of service, compassion, and collective action.”
"As we come together to help our neighbors recover from the devastating wildfires, this Day of Service reflects the core values of unity, compassion, and resilience that Dr. King championed,” said Rlynn Smith-Thomas from the SCV NAACP. “We are proud to collaborate with Assemblywoman Schiavo and our community partners to offer relief and hope to those in need during this critical time.”
The event will feature several service projects, including:
Community Donations
: Collecting clothing, food, and essential supplies for local food pantries and families displaced by the wildfires.
Donations Needed:
Boxed Dry Goods
Pasta
Cereal
Coffee (Grounds & Pods)
Rice
Peanut Butter
Jelly/Jam
Granola Bars
Crackers
Nuts
Frozen/Refrigerated Items
Frozen Pizza
Frozen Chicken Nuggets/Tenders
Chicken Breast
Ground Beef/Turkey
Lunch meat
Lunchables
Milk
Yogurt
Cheese
Gatorade
Personal Hygiene & Toiletries
Feminine Hygiene products
Shampoo/Conditioner
Deodorant
Shaving Cream
Toothpaste
Soap
Toilet Paper
Paper Towels
Facial Tissue
Diapers
Firefighter Thank Yous
: Writing heartfelt messages to firefighters who courageously protected local neighborhoods.
Support for the Homeless
: Making lunches for Bridge to Home shelter to assist individuals experiencing homelessness.
Youth Wellness Projects
: Creating art and words of encouragement for students at school mental health wellness centers.
Youth Center Improvement
: Assisting with upgrades at the Boys & Girls Club to create a safe and welcoming space for children.
Community members are invited to participate in these service projects or contribute by dropping off donations at the event. Donations will also be accepted during the following week at Assemblywoman Schiavo’s office at
27441 Tourney RD Suite 240, Santa Clarita
during the office hours of 9am and 5pm.
To RSVP click
here
.
###
Assemblywoman Pilar Schiavo was elected to the California State Assembly in November of 2022 to represent the 40th Assembly District, representing the Northwest San Fernando Valley and the Santa Clarita Valley. Upon her election, she was appointed as Assistant Majority Whip by the Speaker of the Assembly and now serves as Chair of the Assembly Committee on Military and Veterans Affairs. Prior to her election, Assemblywoman Schiavo was a Nurse Advocate and Small Business Owner who worked in the labor movement for more than 20 years. Throughout her career, Assemblywoman Schiavo helped deliver healthcare, including reproductive healthcare, to more than one million people. In the Northwest San Fernando Valley, she co-founded an organization that helped secure housing for Veterans experiencing homelessness, has delivered more than 50,000 meals to people in need, and increased resources to help keep our communities safe. Assemblywoman Schiavo lives in Chatsworth with her daughter Sofia where they love to hike in the Santa Susana Mountains.