(Bakersfield, CA) January 14, 2024
– The Kern County Board of Supervisors unanimously approved $2 million in state funding for Good Samaritan Hospital today to expand addiction recovery services.
Dr. Jasmeet Bains (D-Delano) secured the funding for this project as part of the Local Fentanyl Task Force initiative but could not attend the meeting because she is on emergency standby in Los Angeles in her role with the California Medical Assistance Team (CAL-MAT), which provides medical response for major disasters and public health emergencies.
“The Kern County Fentanyl Task Force has been meeting continuously, and I appreciate all of the support from law enforcement and healthcare sectors that have worked with me on my mission to integrate healthcare and law enforcement to respond to the ongoing crisis of fentanyl and drugs impacting our community. As a doctor, I know well that this critical integration is the missing key in providing real solutions to help hold people accountable and, at the same time, to help provide services for people who need help with their addiction,” read Supervisor David Couch in sharing an official statement on behalf of Dr. Bains.
Good Samaritan Hospital, in partnership with Kern Family Health and Kern County Behavioral Health & Recovery Services, will be able to offer Medi-Cal patients in-patient detox facilities for the first time using this funding from the Fentanyl Task Force. This program will provide specialized, intensive care, helping patients stabilize and begin their recovery journey.
“We are proud to announce our collaboration with Kern Health Systems and Kern County Fentanyl Misuse and Overdose Prevention Taskforce for a groundbreaking continuum of care pilot program. The pilot, aimed at providing timely inpatient medical detoxification treatment and tailored aftercare services for individuals struggling with substance use disorders, is an essential need for our community with the rise in substance dependence. We hope to grow this program so no patient is turned away in their time of need due to a dearth of inpatient detox facilities. We are grateful to Dr. Jasmeet Bains and the Board of Supervisors for their unwavering dedication to the well-being of our community. Their leadership enables essential collaborations between local, state, and healthcare organizations to provide effective solutions to the growing challenge of substance use disorders. Together, we will make a meaningful impact in the lives of those who need it most,” said Minty Dillon, CEO of Good Samaritan Hospital.
Inpatient detox is for patients experiencing severe substance use disorders and who need 24-hour medical oversight due to withdrawal symptoms, complex health conditions, or mental health challenges.
A total of five hospital beds will be reserved exclusively for Medi-Cal beneficiaries. Patients will be provided around-the-clock nursing care, regular check-ins with medical doctors and psychiatrists, and a combination of counseling, therapy, and educational sessions to help them build the skills and resilience needed for recovery. Kern Behavioral Health & Recovery Services will provide supportive case management to ensure that individuals transitioning from detox have the resources and care they need as they re-enter the community.
No other programs in the county currently provide this level of care.
“Kern County Behavioral Health and Recovery Services is excited to be part of this new partnership to expand inpatient detox services in Kern County. This program addresses a critical need that’s been present in our community for years. The opioid crisis continues to severely affect our community and has only amplified the need for comprehensive detox services. We believe by expanding access to life-saving detox services, this initiative will reduce the strain on emergency services, hospitals, and law enforcement and offer individuals a path to recovery,” said Alison Burrowes, MA LCSW, Behavioral Health Director for Kern County Behavioral Health and Recovery Services.
“Kern Family Health Care is honored to support the creation of an effective continuum of care for individuals in need of substance use detox. In partnership with Good Samaritan Hospital and Kern Behavioral Health and Recovery Services, we will provide safe, supervised aftercare and consistent living arrangements for several months post-discharge. This program will provide the necessary resources and support for local residents who suffer from addiction and result in a life-changing experience,” said Emily Duran, CEO of Kern Family Health Care.
This new program was also made possible by a change in law from another bill that Dr. Bains authored in 2024. AB 2376, signed by the Governor in September, streamlines regulatory requirements, enabling healthcare facilities to accept more patients for addiction and substance use disorder treatments. Previously, the law restricted the types of facilities that can offer care, including a requirement to segregate substance abuse disorder patients despite posing no risk of contagion.
The 2022 needs assessment from the California Department of Healthcare Services found that there are over 10,000 overdose deaths annually across the state, with more than 7,000 involving opioids and 83% linked to fentanyl.
# # #
Dr. Jasmeet Bains represents the 35
th
Assembly District in Kern County, including the cities of Bakersfield, Delano, Wasco, Arvin, Shafter, and McFarland.