SACRAMENTO, CA
— Today, the Assembly Natural Resources Committee advanced
the Landfill Safety Act (AB28), authored by Assemblywoman Pilar Schiavo, in a critical step toward protecting public health and preventing future landfill disasters.
The bill comes in direct response to the worsening health crisis at the Chiquita Canyon Landfill where an underground fire recently tripled in size, now spanning nearly 100 acres and continues to release toxic and cancer-causing chemicals
into nearby communities. Residents living nearby in Val Verde, Castaic and Santa Clarita, have reported deeply concerning health symptoms, including chronic nosebleeds, migraines, tremors, sight loss, brain fog, difficulty breathing, respiratory problems linked to the landfill’s toxins.
“Communities should never have to wait for a full-blown health crisis before action is taken” said Assemblywoman Schiavo. “If landfills operators are proactive, these fires and the health crisis that follows can be prevented. The Landfill Safety Act does just that, it makes sure we don’t just react to disasters, we prevent them.”
The Landfill Safety Act strengthens oversight by requiring landfill operators to:
Alert nearby residents and local enforcement when subsurface temperatures exceed 146°F for over 60 consecutive days.
Submit a corrective action plan within 14 days of high temperatures.
Trigger a multi-agency response team if temperatures continue rising, ensuring timely coordination and oversight.
Face penalties and potential loss of permits for failure to act.
Creates the Landfill Subsurface Fire Mitigation Account so penalty funds can go to support impacted communities for things like relocation, home hardening, and other impacts from burning landfills.
These new requirements aim to fill dangerous gaps in current monitoring procedures, which failed to prevent the Chiquita Canyon Landfill disaster. Currently, it is one of the most dangerous long-term public health threats in California, with Jane Williams, Executive Director of California Communities Against Toxins saying, “I respond to chemical disasters across the county… Chiquita Canyon is the longest continually operating chemical disaster in the country’s history, and it’s happening right here in California.”“I’ve been in Castaic now for five years. Within that time I went from running two miles a day to using inhalers twice a day, said Castaic resident Elizabeth Jeffords. On a daily basis I experience vision loss, debilitating headaches, nausea, vomiting, muscle weakness, fatigue, stomach cramping, ear pain, brain fog, muscle spasms, Tremors, skin rashes, slurred speech and delirium. The internal vibrations and grinding got so bad last year, I started to lose teeth. If I weren’t living this, I wouldn’t believe it. BUT this is real- For me and too many of my neighbors.”
“The Landfill Safety Act brings transparency, accountability, and urgency to a system that has allowed too many warning signs to be ignored,” said Assemblywoman Schiavo. “This is about protecting the health and safety of communities from long-term exposure to dangerous chemicals.”
The bill now heads to the Assembly Appropriations Committee for consideration.
Prior to the committee hearing, a press conference was held with impacted neighbors and supporters spotlighting their worsening symptoms in the health disaster resulting from the Chiquita Canyon Landfill fire and the urgent need for stronger landfill oversight and accountability through AB 28. That press conference can be viewed here.
###
Assemblywoman Pilar Schiavo was elected to the California State Assembly in November of 2022 and re-elected in 2024 to represent the 40th Assembly District, representing the Northwest San Fernando Valley, Val Verde, Castaic and the Santa Clarita Valley. Upon her election, she was appointed as Assistant Majority Whip by the Speaker of the Assembly and now serves as Chair of the Assembly Committee on Military and Veterans Affairs. Prior to her election, Assemblywoman Schiavo was a Nurse Advocate and Small Business Owner who worked in the labor movement for more than 20 years. Throughout her career, Assemblywoman Schiavo helped deliver healthcare, including reproductive healthcare, to more than one million people. In the Northwest San Fernando Valley, she co-founded an organization that helped secure housing for Veterans experiencing homelessness, has delivered more than 50,000 meals to people in need, and increased resources to help keep our communities safe. Assemblywoman Schiavo lives in Chatsworth with her creative kid where they love to hike in the Santa Susana Mountains.