SACRAMENTO
– Today, Assemblymember Kalra and Senator Umberg, the respective Assembly and Senate Judiciary Committee Chairs, express support for legal professionals across the United States taking part in National Law Day of Action.
“As Chair of the Assembly Committee on Judiciary and a former public defender, I am proud to stand in solidarity with so many legal professionals on National Law Day of Action. As officers of the courts, attorneys swear an oath to uphold the Constitution and zealously represent their clients’ interest, even if that interest is socially or politically unpopular. I know firsthand that in order for our democratic system of governance to work, it is vital that every person receive fair, passionate, and professional legal representation. Unfortunately, we are now witnessing unprecedented disregard for the rule of law,” said
Assemblymember Kalra
. “As an attorney fortunate enough to work for and represent the People of California, I call on my fellow California attorneys to reaffirm their oaths to the Constitution and remember why so many of us joined this noble profession in the first place, to represent those who need an advocate in their corner when facing tough times. If the legal profession bands together in the face of growing tyranny we can ensure that the rule of law and the provision of equitable justice will prevail.”
“Law Day isn’t new. It’s been celebrated by the country, courts, schools, youth groups, community organizations, and law schools for over 60 years. But the rule of law has never been under attack in that time like it is currently. This unprecedented attack on our nation’s legal institutions – judges and law firms alike – should concern every single American,” said
Senator Umberg
. “We’re really living in an incredible time. By all accounts, we appear to be barreling towards the most profound constitutional crisis of our generation. Now, more than ever, it is important to reaffirm our belief in America’s unique system of checks and balances and honor those who work to uphold the rule of law.”
Law Day, observed on May 1 and throughout the month of May, has played a significant role in American legal culture since President Dwight D. Eisenhower established it in 1958. This occasion honors the rule of law in a free society.
###
Assemblymember Ash Kalra
represents California’s 25th Assembly District, which encompasses the majority of San José, including downtown and open space areas in southeast Santa Clara County. He was first elected in 2016, becoming the first Indian American to serve in the California Legislature in state history, and was re-elected to his fifth term in 2024. Assemblymember Kalra is the Chair of the Committee on Judiciary and also serves as a member on the Housing & Community Development, Labor & Employment, Natural Resources, and Utilities & Energy committees.