SACRAMENTO, CA – Assemblymember Tasha Boerner (D-Encinitas)
introduced new legislation to ban plastic microbeads in cleaning products, leave-on cosmetics, and paints, targeting a persistent source of toxic microplastic pollution. AB 823, co-sponsored by The 5 Gyres Institute, Breast Cancer Prevention Partners, Californians Against Waste, and Clean Water Action, would prevent trillions of plastic particles from entering the environment and posing risks to public health.
“This is very much a movie becoming reality. Plastic has overtaken our world, from the soil that grows our food to the water we drink, the air we breathe, and even the products we use daily. With AB 823, California is taking a big step by banning personal care and household products that threaten our health and the environment. We all deserve a cleaner, healthier world free from microplastic pollution,” stated
Assemblymember Tasha Boerner
. “I am excited to work with some excellent environmental champions who will help me to get this bill to the finish line. A microplastic-free future is possible.”
A 2023 study found that household cleaning products alone release 40 trillion microplastic particles each year. Microplastics have been detected in human lungs, the bloodstream, placentas, and even brain tissue, raising serious concerns among researchers. Furthermore, epidemiological studies have suggested potential links between exposure to microplastics and the onset of various chronic diseases. Microplastics trigger uncontrolled cell proliferation and ensue tissue growth leading to various cancers affecting the lungs, blood, breasts, prostate, and ovaries.
California banned plastic microbeads in rinse-off personal care products in 2015, but the law left out leave-on personal care products, cleaning products, industrial detergents, and coatings, which continue to release millions of tons of plastic into the environment.
Supporters of the bill point out that alternatives to plastic microbeads already exist, like, coconut shells, sand, and salt, making their continued use unnecessary. Businesses in support comment on the bill: "At Grove, we believe in taking bold action to eliminate plastic pollution at its source. The 2015 microbead ban was an important first step, but expanding it to include other products is essential to ensure that plastic pollution does not cause harm to our families, our communities, and our planet. We’re proud to support this legislation and advocate for policies that drive systemic change, reinforcing our commitment to environmental sustainability and human health. By closing these loopholes, we can help ensure California remains at the forefront of the fight against microplastic pollution," says
Alexandra Bede
,
the Director of Sustainability at Grove Collaborative
.
If passed, AB 823 would prohibit the sale and distribution of plastic microbeads in leave-on cosmetics, cleaning products, and coatings, ensuring that fewer microplastics enter California’s waterways, ecosystems, and bodies.
Co-sponsoring organizations comment on the bill:
“Plastic microbeads are an unnecessary and preventable source of pollution,”
said Nancy Buermeyer
,
Director of Program and Policy
,
at Breast Cancer Prevention Partners
. “These tiny plastics act like sponges, absorbing toxic chemicals. They then make their way into our bodies through inhalation, ingestion, and skin exposure. Microplastics contribute to cancers affecting the breasts, ovaries, lungs, blood and prostate. Banning them is a commonsense step to protect public health.”
“California already banned plastic microbeads for rinse-off, but why we still allowing them in certain household products? Research links microplastic exposure to a range of health issues, and removing them is vital to safeguard public health and prevent long-term harm,” said
Alison Waliszewski
,
Director of Regional Policy & Program Development at The 5 Gyres Institute
. “We applaud Assemblymember Boerner for advancing solutions that protect California’s water, ecosystems, and public health.”
“Californians should not have to worry that the microplastics in their household products are going to end up in their bodies,” said
Krystal Raynes
,
Legislative Associate at Californians Against Waste
. “AB 823 holds the industry accountable for reducing plastic pollution at its source.”
“Californians should not have to worry that products they buy are polluting waterways and drinking water sources with microplastics,” said
Andria Ventura
,
Legislative and Policy Director at Clean Water Action
. “This bill will close a dangerous loophole and ensure that companies use safer, non-toxic alternatives.”