City of Los Angeles Adopts Resolution in Support of Family Preparedness Plan Act of 2025
Los Angeles, CA
— As federal immigration raids intensify across Los Angeles, the City Council has passed a resolution backing
AB 495 – the Family Preparedness Plan Act of 2025
, a critical measure to protect immigrant families and children from the devastating impacts of detentions, deportations and family separation.
Authored by
Assemblywoman Celeste Rodriguez (AD43)
, AB 495 strengthens legal tools that allow families to create formal safety plans and caregiving arrangements, including joint guardianship through the courts. It also requires local education agencies to adopt the latest guidance from the California Attorney General’s report,
"Promoting a Safe and Secure Learning Environment for All."
In addition, the bill directs the Attorney General to develop policies to shield childcare centers from immigration enforcement actions.
“We are witnessing families being torn apart in real time - parents detained, unable to pick up their children from school and childcare.”
said Assemblywoman Celeste Rodriguez
, author of AB 495. “This bill is not just about planning; it’s about creating a safety net. It’s about making sure immigrant and mixed status families have the support they need to minimize further trauma should they find themselves in this situation. AB 495 gives families the legal tools to protect their children, over 10 million children have an immigrant parent. The state has a moral obligation to act and we will.”
The resolution was introduced in the Los Angeles City Council by
Councilwoman Imelda Padilla
, a vocal advocate for immigrant rights.
“No child should face separation without a plan, and no family should be left vulnerable. Creating a family action plan is incredibly important, especially in a time when our hardworking immigrant families are being unfairly targeted and forced to live in fear,”
Councilmember Imelda Padilla said.
"I’m grateful for Assemblywoman Rodriguez’s leadership and proud to support AB 495 to help our families stay together during these unpredictable times. This bill empowers our communities to prepare by relying on trusted family members, friends, and neighbors in moments of crisis. This is the kind of compassionate, collaborative policy we need across all levels of government, because unity is our strongest defense.”
With statewide momentum building, advocates including bill co-sponsors Public Counsel, Alliance for Children’s Rights, and community based organizations like Vision y Compromiso are urging swift legislative approval of AB 495 to provide urgent relief to communities across California. The bill has passed the Assembly and the Senate Judiciary and Human Services Committees. AB 495 is scheduled for a hearing in the Senate Appropriations Committee on August 18, 2025.
###