SACRAMENTO, CA –
Assemblymember Avelino Valencia (D-Anaheim) issued the following statement in response to Governor Newsom's budget proposal for the 2025-26 fiscal year.
“I am committed to working towards a future where every Californian is valued and uplifted by prioritizing essential services and safety net programs that our communities rely on. It is great to see the administration support California families with newborns by creating a three-month supply of diapers at no cost for the next two fiscal years. Additionally, California schools will serve nearly 1 billion meals through the universal school meals program because no child should go to school hungry. Through these efforts, our budget is continuing to improve the quality of life for all who call California home.
During my tenure as Chair of the Assembly’s Budget Subcommittee #7 on Accountability and Oversight, I focused on ensuring our public funds are used effectively. It is reassuring to see new accountability measures for homelessness funding adopted through our oversight hearings. These measures will ensure local grantees stay on track with their reports and remedial actions. Local governments must also demonstrate progress in implementing activities funded by the Homeless Housing, Assistance, and Prevention Program before additional funds are released.
As the new Chair of the Assembly Banking and Finance Committee, I will maximize my position to support our communities and families as much as possible. Californians are feeling the strain of the costs of living, difficulty affording basic necessities, high insurance premiums, and mortgages. Through this committee, we will address these issues and support our families.
At the start of the new legislative session, I introduced Assembly Constitutional Amendment 1 (ACA 1) to lay the foundation for a financially stronger California. I am proud that the Governor recognizes the potential in increasing the size of the Rainy Day fund, which will provide a safety net for future generations of Californians. This year, we are projecting a budget surplus, but we must be cautious, as our revenue sources are projected to be volatile over the next fiscal year.
California is still at a crossroads, with the challenges before us, but this budget is an opportunity to make meaningful changes that will positively impact the lives of our residents. I look forward to working with my colleagues in the Legislature and the Administration to finalize a budget that reflects our community’s priorities.”
###
Assemblymember Avelino Valencia proudly represents the 68th Assembly district which includes the cities of Anaheim, Orange and Santa Ana. Valencia chairs the Assembly Banking and Finance Committee.