SACRAMENTO, CA
– On Friday, Assemblymember Chris Rogers (D-Santa Rosa) was officially assigned to fiscal and policy committees that oversee critical industries and services for Assembly District 2. Rogers will serve on the Budget Subcommittee No. 4 on Climate Crisis, Resources, Energy, and Transportation, as well as the Utilities and Energy Committee, Communications and Conveyance Committee, Transportation Committee, and the Water, Parks and Wildlife Committee.
"With hundreds of miles of coastline and an abundance of natural resources, these committees are critical in supporting and regulating the industries that fuel our economy and the programs that serve our communities.” said Assemblymember Rogers. “Sitting on these committees allows Assembly District 2 to have a voice in expanding access to broadband, utilities, and transportation infrastructure, as well as addressing the unique needs of rural economies and ensuring that the state budget reflects the priorities and needs of our entire state.”
Subcommittee No. 4 on Climate Crisis, Resources, Energy and Transportation
Budget Subcommittee 4, chaired by Assemblymember Bennet (D-Ventura), has primary jurisdiction over state Budget proposals and oversight for climate change funding including natural resources, environmental protection, agriculture, energy, air pollution, and transportation. This includes all boards, departments, and offices under the California Natural Resources Agency, the California Environmental Protection Agency, the California State Transportation Agency, the California Department of Food and Agriculture, and the California Public Utilities Commission.
Committee on Utilities and Energy
This committee, chaired by Assemblymember Cottie Petrie-Norris (D-Irvine) and Vice Chair Assemblyman Joe Patterson (R-Rocklin), oversees various governmental entities, such as the California Energy Commission, California Independent System Operator, California Public Utilities Commission (CPUC), and CPUC oversight and reform. The committee also has jurisdiction over electric generation, biogas, biomass, coal, geothermal, hydroelectric, natural gas, nuclear, renewables, solar, and wind, as well as electric grid, energy efficiency, energy conservation, and demand response, and energy service providers. Additionally, the committee hears legislation on natural Gas, power plant siting, railroads, supplier diversity related to CPUC regulated energy, water, and railroad, water utilities, and utility rates on electric, gas, water, and vessels.
Committee on Communications and Conveyance
This committee, led by Chair Assemblymember Tasha Boerner (D-Solano Beach) and Vice Chair Assemblyman Josh Hoover (R-Folsom), has jurisdiction over broadband, cable, digital infrastructure and video, the Competition Act, telecommunications, transportation network companies, and various forms of conveyance, such as party charters and limousines.
Committee on Transportation
Chaired by Assemblymember Lori D. Wilson (D-Suisun City) and Vice Chair Assemblymember Laurie Davies (R-Oceanside), this committee oversees legislative proposals related to the California High-Speed Rail Authority, California Highway Patrol, California Transportation Commission, Department of Motor Vehicles, Department of Transportation (Caltrans), driver’s licenses, freight, regional transportation agencies, transit authorities, intercity rail, mobile sources of air pollution, fuels, rules of the road, state highways, local streets and roads, vehicles, aircraft, bicycle and pedestrian facilities, and vessels.
Committee on Water, Parks and Wildlife
The primary jurisdiction of this committee are water resources, flood management, fish and game, parks and recreation, and wildlife. The Committee is chaired by Assemblymember Diane Papan (D-San Mateo) and the Vice Chair Assemblymember Jeff Gonzalez (R-Indio).
###
Chris Rogers was elected to the state Assembly in 2024. He represents Sonoma, Mendocino, Humboldt, Del Norte and Trinity counties. Learn more about Assemblymember Rogers
here
.