SACRAMENTO—
Today, the Legislature filed an amicus brief in the state’s
lawsuit against President Trump
, asking the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals to take up its appeal en banc to stop Trump’s unlawful and unwarranted deployment of the National Guard and protect California’s families, workers, and businesses.
The State of California filed its lawsuit on June 9, naming President Trump, Defense Secretary Pete Hegseth, and the Department of Defense, arguing that the federal takeover of a CalGuard unit violates the U.S. Constitution and oversteps the administration’s Title X authority. Trump mobilized the National Guard without the consent of Governor Gavin Newsom, as federal law requires. Events on the ground have made clear that this deployment is entirely unnecessary and is harming the state’s economy and residents.
The Legislature’s amicus brief asks the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals to stop the illegal federal action. It includes personal accounts from residents across California, including testimony of immigrants fearful of going to work, shopping at stores, or taking their children to play in the park.
In the state’s lawsuit, Attorney General Rob Bonta makes the case that the federal government overstepped legal authority and bypassed Gubernatorial sign-off when Trump mobilized a CalGuard unit, an illegal takeover without basis or precedent. The lawsuit asks the courts to stop the federal government’s abuse of power and require Trump and the Department of Defense to issue an order through a state’s governor to mobilize any National Guard teams.
Statement from Speaker Robert Rivas and Pro Tem Mike McGuire
“President Trump’s federalization of the National Guard in California is unlawful, an overreach that’s resulted in significant and negative impacts on our residents’ well-being, and the effect on the economy and everyday life is real. Trump’s dangerous move also has diverted the National Guard away from crucial state duties like combating wildfires and preventing drug trafficking at the border. It’s time to demobilize the Guard and stop this abuse of power by the Trump administration.”
###
For more information, follow Speaker Robert Rivas at the following social media channels:
Instagram:
@caspeakerrivas
Facebook:
www.facebook.com/CASpeakerRivas/