Sacramento, CA –
Today, Assembly Democrats announced an agreement to amend Assembly Bill 379, strengthening California law on solicitation of minors and increasing support for victims and survivors.
By amending AB 379, Public Safety Chair Assemblymember Nick Schultz (D-Burbank) worked in partnership with joint-author Assemblymember Stephanie Nguyen (D-Elk Grove) and Assemblymember Maggy Krell (D-Sacramento), who supports the bill as a co-author.
Under the agreement, AB 379 will impose felony penalties for adults that solicit sex from a 16- or 17-year-old, ensuring stronger consequences for child predators. For adult offenders at least three years older than the minor, prosecutors will have new tools to bring felony charges.
When the adult offender is within three years of age of the minor, solicitation remains illegal and a misdemeanor.
New language in AB 379 will also create a state grant program to assist district attorneys in streamlining prosecution of human trafficking crimes, including sex trafficking.
AB 379 creates a Survivor Support Fund to bolster direct services for victims and survivors of sex trafficking and exploitation. New language in this agreement will increase fines for businesses that look the other way or abet human trafficking, with revenue going to the Survivors Support Fund.
“Human trafficking and child exploitation are serious problems in California deserving of tough and nuanced legislative solutions. I am grateful for the leadership of Speaker Rivas, Assemblymember Nguyen and others who have worked tirelessly the last few days to secure a Democratic solution that strengthens California’s existing laws and penalties. This is a bill we can all be proud of, and I look forward to closely working together with all of our co-authors to deliver a safer California for everyone, especially our children.” Assemblymember Nick Schultz “
"This new bill is stronger and reflects California’s deep commitment to protecting every young person’s safety and dignity. I thank Assemblymember Schultz and Speaker Rivas for getting this policy right, and appreciate Assemblymember Krell’s commitment to justice for survivors.” Assemblymember Stephanie Nguyen
“I’m looking at this from a prosecutor’s standpoint — this bill strengthens California law and gives us the felony hammer to prosecute the creeps that are preying on teenagers. I appreciate everyone’s work on this bill, especially the survivors who won’t give up.” Assemblymember Maggy Krell
The Assembly Appropriations Committee will consider AB 379 in its hearing on Wednesday, May 7.
###