District 15
– Assemblywoman Avila Farias has selected Contra Costa County-based Boys & Girls Club as the 2025 California Nonprofit of the Year for Assembly District 15.
“I am honored to recognize the Boys & Girls Club for its unwavering commitment to empowering our youth. Through mentorship, education, and a safe supportive environment, this organization helps shape the future of our community by providing young people with the tools they need to succeed. Their dedication to fostering leadership, academic success, and personal growth makes a lasting impact, and I am proud to celebrate their invaluable work.”
This is the 10th year of the California Nonprofit of the Year initiative, a state-wide effort honoring the critical role nonprofit organizations play in California. Each year, state legislators choose a nonprofit from their district to be honored throughout the year, including at an annual awards luncheon at the Capitol in May.
The Boys and Girls Club provides more than just a safe space, it’s a foundation for opportunity, mentorship, and growth. Serving over 110 youth per day, by investing in our youth. The Club empowers the next generation with the skills, confidence, and support they need to succeed in school, career, and life.
“We are grateful for the work of Boys and Girls Club of Contra Costa County and want to extend our congratulations for this well deserved recognition,” said Geoff Green, CEO of the California Association of Nonprofits (CalNonprofits), the sponsor for this initiative. “Nonprofit provide critical services, advocate for our most vulnerable neighbors, and enrich the lives of all Californians. From the childcare program to the soccer team, from the art class to the health clinic, and from the community organizer to the animal shelter, nonprofits make our communities stronger”.
“Nonprofits are not just innovators and problem-solvers, but also a major economic force within the state,” said Green. According to “Causes Count,” a 2019
report
commissioned by CalNonprofits, the nonprofit sector is the 4th largest industry in the state, employing more than 1.2 million people. Each year, California nonprofits generate more than $273 billion in revenue and bring in $40 billion in revenue from outside of California. The unpaid labor contributed by volunteers at nonprofits is equivalent to 330,000 full-time jobs every year.
The program is sponsored by CalNonprofits in partnership with the state Senate and Assembly Select Committees on the Nonprofit Sector. CalNonprofits, the leading policy voice for California’s nonprofit sector, focuses on advocacy, education, and research to build a more powerful and politically engaged nonprofit network across the state.