SACRAMENTO, CA
– Today, Assemblywoman Esmeralda Soria (D-Merced), introduced AB 707, which will appropriate $455.5 million for improvements to State Highway Route 152, which are needed to accommodate increasing the water capacity of the San Luis Reservoir.
“California’s water system desperately needs increased water storage capacity in order to meet the needs of both our residents and our agriculture economy,”
said Soria.
“In order to increase this capacity, the surface of the B.F. Sisk Dam and the San Luis Reservoir must be raised. However, this means State Route 152, which crosses over the reservoir must also be raised and improved.”
AB 707 helps deliver on California’s promise to secure water for its residents by providing funding for the state’s portion of the reservoir expansion project, and modifications of State Route 152.
“Since its completion in 1967, the San Luis Reservoir has served as the hub of our water storage system for the farms, communities, and ecosystems reliant on south-of-Delta water supply,”
said Board Chair of the San Luis & Delta-Mendota Water Authority Cannon Michael
. “The Authority thanks Assemblywoman Soria and our legislative delegation for their support to improve the affordability of this critical water storage improvement by working to secure state funds to improve unrelated public safety improvements on State Route 152.”
“Given the reality of extreme weather caused by climate change, it is vital to invest in water supply storage projects that help support the people and businesses of California,” said
Valley Water Board Chair Tony Estremera.
“Thank you to Assemblywoman Soria for introducing a bill that provides critical transportation safety benefits and supports the Sisk Dam Raise and San Luis Reservoir Expansion Project, which will improve water supply reliability to 2 million people in Santa Clara County and help lessen the financial burden on our local ratepayers.”
# # #
Assemblywoman Esmeralda Soria represents the 27th Assembly District which includes communities in Fresno, Madera, and Merced counties.