SACRAMENTO –
Today, Assemblymember Mia Bonta (D – Oakland) introduced a new bill, AB 350, that will expand access to fluoride varnish and improve oral health outcomes for children across the state. The bill requires Medi-Cal and commercial plans to cover fluoride varnish in primary care settings for youth under 21 and expand reimbursement opportunities for fluoride varnish application.
“While California bills itself as a national leader, we are in the bottom tier of states concerning kid’s dental health. Across the state, dental issues prevent students from concentrating and even make students miss entire days of school. California must act now,”
said Assemblymember Mia Bonta.
“Fluoride varnish is a safe and effective method to prevent tooth decay, and AB 350 will ensure more Californians can access it.”
The bill will also address disparities in oral health. While nearly 15% of all children in the state experience decayed teeth or cavities annually, Black, Latino, and Spanish-speaking children experience disproportionately higher adverse oral health impacts.
“We applaud Assemblymember Bonta’s introduction of this critical bill to expand access of fluoride varnish for children enrolled in Medi-Cal and commercial health plans,”
said Ted Lempert, President of Children Now
. “Fluoride varnish is effective at both preventing and stopping the progression of cavities, which is the most chronic childhood condition and a major contributor to missing school. This is a Pro-Kid bill and Children Now is excited to be a sponsor and work to improve oral health outcomes for children.”
The need for legislation addressing dental care is heightened as Robert F. Kennedy Jr., nominee for Secretary of Health & Human Services, is poised to recommend removing fluoride from water systems. Calgary, in Alberta, Canada, voted to remove fluoride from its water supply in 2011; in the years that followed, there was a stark increase in dental decay and cavities in Calgary’s children; the city is now in the process of re-introducing fluoride to its water supply.
“With fewer than half of children served by Medi-Cal receiving an annual dental visit, AB 350 will expand access points for fluoride varnish to schools and public health settings, ensuring a healthy smile is accessible to more Californians. I am proud to introduce this bill, and I look forward to promoting science-based health policies with my colleagues in the legislature,”
said Assemblymember Mia Bonta.
AB 350 is the eighth bill introduced by Assemblymember Mia Bonta in this legislative cycle.
###
Assemblymember Mia Bonta
represents California’s 18
th
Assembly District encompassing the East Bay including Oakland, Alameda, and Emeryville. She also chairs the Assembly Health Committee.