SACRAMENTO, CA
– In another round of destructive cuts, President Donald Trump officially ordered the end of national 988 LGBTQ+ suicide prevention funding. Since 2022, 988—the nation's official hotline for suicide prevention and crisis management—has offered specialized services for LGBTQ+ callers in need. The funding for this program was officially halted today, with services ending on July 17th.
Assemblymember Mark González, Governor Gavin Newsom
, and
Lieutenant Governor Eleni Kounalakis
have joined forces to push back against this federal administration's decision to put innocent lives on the line.
AB 727, authored by
Assemblymember González
, is a critical measure to combat the LGBTQ+ youth mental health crisis. AB 727 would require student ID cards for grades 7–12 and at institutions of higher education to include the
Trevor Project Crisis Support Line
, providing immediate access to life-saving resources.
Additionally, the Legislature supported
Governor Newsom's
effort to allocate $17.5 million to support the 988 State Suicide and Behavioral Health Crisis Services Fund. This investment will help ensure services are available to address crisis intervention and stabilization needs of callers. This funding will also be used to ensure calls are directed to trained, culturally competent counselors who understand the needs of the communities they serve.
"This federal government is determined to erase LGBTQ+ Americans by any means necessary," said
Assemblymember González
. "Youth suicide prevention should be a bipartisan priority. Instead, our community—especially our youth—is being used as a pawn by political opportunists chasing headlines and social media clout. I am proud to fight for my community because these cuts are more than a political decision—lives are on the line."
"Cutting off a proven lifeline for people in need is outrageous and inexcusable," said
Governor Newsom
. "While this federal administration slashes services and tries to erase LGBTQ people, California will do the opposite. Every child—straight, gay, transgender—belongs."
"While the Trump Administration turns its back on LGBTQ+ youth in crisis, California is stepping up," said
Lieutenant Governor Kounalakis
. "These cruel federal cuts to 988 services are not just heartless—they're dangerous, stripping away life-saving care from young people who need it most. In contrast, Governor Newsom—with support from our state legislature—has proposed efforts to invest $17.5 million to keep crisis lines open, accessible, and staffed by trained professionals who understand the communities they serve. This is why I'm proud to co- sponsor Assemblymember González's AB 727 to ensure our students, especially our LGBTQ+ youth, know they are seen, valued, and never alone."
In the United States, schools should be a safe place to learn. Unfortunately, the reality is stark. According to the
Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI)
, schools were the third most common location for hate crimes reported against LGBTQ+ youth. These incidents more than doubled between 2018 and 2022. However, these figures are likely underreported due to the voluntary nature of the reporting process.
Studies have consistently shown the need for increased specialized suicide prevention services for LGBTQ+ youth. The
Centers for Disease Control
, for example, have highlighted the staggering statistics. In a report, they found that 20% of surveyed students who identified as gay, lesbian, or bisexual reported having attempted suicide, compared to 6% of their heterosexual peers. This reality jumps to nearly
26% for transgender high school students
.
Though modest in scope, AB 727 represents a meaningful step toward creating safer, more affirming school environments across California.
Assemblymember Mark González is the Assembly Majority Whip. He represents the 54th Assembly District composed of the cities of Los Angeles, Commerce, Montebello, and Vernon.
CONTACT:
Jaspreet Johl; Jaspreet.Johl@asm.ca.gov; (916) 335-8871