SACRAMENTO, CA
- Today, Assemblymember Matt Haney (D-San Francisco) and Senator Scott Weiner (D-San Francisco) announced the introduction of a landmark bill that ensures all insurance companies in the state are required to cover all forms of Pre-Exposure Prophylaxis (PrEP)— medications that stop a person from contracting HIV — including the newly approved twice-a-year injectable formulation. This critical legislation seeks to ensure that every Californian has access to the medications necessary to prevent the spread of HIV, regardless of their financial situation or type of insurance plan.
This bill comes at a time when access to preventative health care could be at risk nationwide. Currently, the Affordable Care Act (ACA) mandates that health insurance plans cover preventative services like PrEP at no additional cost to the patient. However, the future of these protections is uncertain. Extremist conservative activists and right-wing politicians have argued in court to restrict access to HIV prevention medication. Meanwhile, a looming U.S. Supreme Court decision on a case brought by the attorneys who successfully argued Dobbs vs. Jackson and overturned Roe vs. Wade is expected this year. If the Conservative majority on the Supreme Court chooses to dismantle key Affordable Care Act protections, it will potentially leave millions of Californians without access to essential HIV prevention.
“So many advocates, physicians, and people who have lost loved ones have dreamed for decades of ending HIV in California,” said Assemblymember Haney. “ If we make sure PrEP remains truly accessible, we can finally realize the end of this epidemic. We can't back down, we have to ensure this critical medication remains available for any Californian who needs it.”
“It is absolutely critical that California secure access to PrEP for all Californians given Trump’s all out assault on LGBTQ health,” said Senator Wiener who was the first elected official to publicly announce he was taking prep, as well the author of SB 339 which allows access to PrEP over the counter. “Trump’s political games risk derailing our progress toward eliminating the nightmare of HIV altogether. This bill helps shore up access to this critically needed medication in these uncertain times.”
Since the FDA approved the first form of PrEP in 2012, new HIV infections in San Francisco have plummeted by almost 70%. The new twice-a-year injectable PrEP is a major breakthrough in HIV prevention and is set to be approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) this year. The new medication is seen as a game-changer for individuals who struggle with daily pill regimens. By requiring insurance companies to cover this medication, California is taking a bold step in ensuring that its residents have access to this preventative treatment that effectively acts like a vaccine against HIV.
AB 602 has gained widespread support from public health advocates, and healthcare professionals across the state, who argue that increasing access to PrEP is essential in finally ending the HIV epidemic which with these new medications is finally in reach. Removing access to PrEP could see a return to pre-PrEP numbers in cities that have been successful in using the medications to significantly lower new HIV infection rates. AB 602 will be debated in committees before moving to a full vote in each house of the California State Legislature. If passed, it would go into effect in 2026, ensuring that California continues to lead the nation in providing essential preventative healthcare.
“Science has given us the tools to finally end this epidemic that has taken so many lives and traumatized a generation,” said Haney. “We can't let extremists who seem perfectly fine with letting HIV spread to put countless people at risk. Preventative care for HIV is essential and California can ensure that it is fully protected in our state.”
####