Laguna Beach, CA –
Assemblywoman Cottie Petrie-Norris and the Boys & Girls Club of Laguna Beach (BGCLB) celebrated the grand opening of the new Dream Play Yard at the Laguna Canyon Enrichment Center—a dynamic space designed to support the physical, emotional, and social well-being of local youth. The project was made possible through $400,000 in state funding secured by the Assemblywoman in the Fiscal Year 2022-23 state budget, as well as local donors.
The Dream Play Yard features a range of amenities, including a new play structure, turf and shade areas, skateboarding space, and more. The design supports both unstructured play and organized programs—ranging from yoga and art therapy to community movie nights and educational presentations by local partners.
“The Dream Play Yard is a joyful, vibrant space that reflects the spirit and imagination of the incredible kids it was built for,” said
Assemblywoman Cottie Petrie-Norris (D-Irvine)
. “It will inspire creativity, connection, and play—giving children a safe and supportive place to thrive. I’m proud to support projects that invest in our youth and help build brighter futures for all.”
“We are so grateful for the generous support of Assemblywoman Cottie Petrie-Norris and our community for their transformational investment in the young people we serve,” said
Pamela Estes, CEO of the Boys & Girls Club of Laguna Beach
. “Providing the kids of Laguna and South Orange County a safe yet fun place to be and grow is our primary goal. The new Dream Play Yard will be a space not just for Club members, but for the whole community to enjoy.”
With anxiety and depression on the rise—often linked to increased screen time—the Dream Play Yard offers a healthier alternative. The turf area is designed to host mindfulness-based activities such as yoga, tai chi, meditation, and music therapy. The outdoor setting and art installations also promote emotional expression and physical well-being through movement and creativity.
Since 1952, the Boys & Girls Club of Laguna Beach has served youth across Laguna Beach and Saddleback Valley, supporting over 4,000 students daily through in-school and out-of-school programs. With a long-standing commitment to inclusion, equity, and community engagement, the Club continues to provide a safe, welcoming environment for all children. The new play yard enhances this mission—encouraging greater community participation, expanding programming, and strengthening partnerships focused on environmental stewardship and youth development.