SACRAMENTO—
AB 285, introduced by Assemblymember James C. Ramos (D-San Bernardino) and co-sponsored by the Riverside County District Attorney’s Office and the San Bernardino County District Attorney’s Office was introduced in the Assembly. The bill aims to protect victims of domestic violence when their convicted assailants are released from incarceration.
Ramos stated, “I introduced AB 285 to ensure victims of domestic violence and sexual offenses are protected from being re-victimized. By issuing a criminal protective order, we ensure that upon an offender’s release, they cannot gain contact with those whom they victimized. This is especially important when it comes to Missing and Murdered Indigenous Persons as many of those cases stem from domestic violence. We want to ensure that all victims are able to feel protected even when the individuals who harmed them are released from prison. Victims should not have to live again in fear.”
AB 285
would require that if a defendant is convicted of domestic violence or a sex offense, they be served with a temporary criminal protective order that would last no more than 180 days upon their release from prison.  Under current law, these orders against defendants may expire before their release, and this bill aims to remedy that, especially for the most violent offenders.
“The Riverside County District Attorney’s Office is proud to sponsor and support AB 285. Currently, when domestic violence abusers are convicted, they are issued restraining orders that prohibit contact with their victims. However, these restraining orders sometimes expire before the abuser is released from prison, leaving the victim at risk,” said District Attorney Mike Hestrin. “AB 285 aims to close this gap by requiring a six-month temporary restraining order to be in effect prior to the abuser’s release, giving the victim adequate time to seek a permanent restraining order for their protection. We commend Assemblymember Ramos for introducing this vital legislation to safeguard some of our most vulnerable victims.”
“When survivors of domestic violence and sexual assault seek justice, the healing process doesn’t end when an offender is convicted and sentenced. Survivors often live in fear of facing an eventual prison release date and potential contact with the offender,” said San Bernardino County District Attorney Jason Anderson. “For this reason, I am thankful to Assemblymember James Ramos for introducing AB 285, which will allow for additional temporary criminal protective orders safeguarding victims of crime upon release of the convicted offender. San Bernardino County District Attorney’s Office supports this legislation that adds additional protections against the harm and re-victimization of domestic violence and sexual assault survivors.”
The bill is currently pending referral to a policy committee.
###
Assemblymember James C. Ramos proudly represents the 45th Assembly district which includes the Cities of Fontana, Highland, Mentone, Redlands, Rialto and San Bernardino. He is the first and only California Native American serving in the state’s legislature. Ramos chairs the Assembly Budget Subcommittee #6 on Public Safety.