SACRAMENTO— Assemblymember John Harabedian (D-Pasadena) and Speaker Robert Rivas (D-Salinas) announced legislation today to support the behavioral health needs and wellness of Los Angeles and California residents affected by wildfires.
AB 1032 would require health care insurers to cover 12 annual visits per year with a licensed behavioral health provider to residents affected by wildfires. These visits are
in addition to
what Californians are currently entitled to in their current commercial plan.
How AB 1032 Works
The legislation, which was developed in partnership with community groups to address the critical mental health needs after the devastating firestorms in Los Angeles, ensures critical access to behavioral health services and promotes recovery and resilience for residents who have experienced traumatic impacts.
Key details of the bill include:
Health care service plans and insurers must cover up to 12 annual visits with a licensed behavioral health provider.
Coverage applies to individuals residing in counties under wildfire emergency declarations.
Benefits extend until one year after the emergency declaration is lifted.
Effective Date: Applies to health plans issued, amended, or renewed on or after January 1, 2026.
Urgency Clause: Takes effect immediately upon passage.
Why AB 1032 Matters
Data from the California Parent & Youth Helpline show a dramatic surge in activity, with 62% of all calls related to mental and behavioral health needs coming from Southern California. This spike in demand was accompanied by sharp increases across all communication channels, including:
A 366% jump in overnight calls
A 68% rise in live chat usage
A 45% increase in text messages
A 22% overall boost in call volume
What Assemblymember John Harabedian Says
“Wildfire trauma doesn’t disappear when the flames are out. Survivors deserve affordable access to behavioral health care when they need it most to support their recovery. That’s why I’m proud to partner with Speaker Rivas to introduce the Wildfire Trauma Recovery and Resiliency Act, ensuring those impacted by the Los Angeles wildfires can receive up to 12 covered behavioral health visits annually- helping them rebuild not just their homes, but their well-being.”
What Speaker Robert Rivas Says
“As Angelenos begin to rebuild after the devastating firestorms, the Assembly stands ready to do everything possible to help residents on the path to full recovery. That includes mental and behavioral health support. I am grateful to Assemblymember Harabedian for his leadership on this issue, and for ensuring wildfire victims across our state can  access the care they need.”
What Dr. Le Ondra Clark Harvey, CEO of the California Behavioral Health Association, Says
“The California Behavioral Health Association (CBHA) is the most diverse provider organization in California representing agencies who serve over 2 million clients across the state. The trauma of wildfires has only intensified the behavioral health crisis for vulnerable communities who rely on consistent care. As CBHA members have worked to provide services to affected communities, we value the incredible partnership with our state leaders. We commend our Assembly Speaker Robert Rivas and Assemblymember John Harabedian for their leadership during Angelenos’ time of need. Their commitment ensures health plans and insurers provide immediate, ongoing support to those in crisis and CBHA is proud to stand with them in this critical work.”
What Happens Next
AB 1032 awaits referral to a policy committee for consideration.
###