SACRAMENTO –
Democratic Caucus Chair and Assemblymember Rick Chavez Zbur (D-Hollywood) issued the following statement today praising Governor Gavin Newsom's comprehensive plan to rebuild communities devastated by the wildfires in Southern California.
"I applaud Governor Newsom's bold decision that recognizes the crucial need to cut red tape to assure that we can rebuild homes, businesses, and communities as quickly as possible,"
said Assemblymember Zbur
. "We owe it to the people affected by these devastating fires to do everything in our power to allow them to rebuild and move forward with their lives. This may be the most destructive fire in California history and is a disaster of an unprecedented nature — our response needs to meet the moment and the magnitude of this crisis. While we have much more to do, Governor Newsom's executive order is a crucial and important first step."
Tens of thousands of Assemblymember Zbur's constituents have been impacted by both the Palisades and Sunset fires. Large portions of the City of Santa Monica were forced to evacuate due to the Palisades Fire, and residents in the Hollywood Hills were displaced by the Sunset Fire in Runyon Canyon. Three of the priority evacuation centers in West Los Angeles sheltering evacuees of the Palisades Fire are located within Assembly District 51: Westwood Recreation Center, Stoner Recreation Center, and Pan Pacific Park Recreation Center.
Assemblymember Zbur continues to work closely with the Governor's Office of Emergency Services, the Assembly Speaker's Office and his colleagues in the Legislature, local elected officials, and fire and safety officials to address the most urgent needs of his constituents.
Assemblymember Rick Chavez Zbur serves as the Democratic Caucus Chair for the California State Assembly and represents the 51st Assembly District, which includes Universal City, Hollywood, parts of the Hollywood Hills, Hancock Park, West Hollywood, Beverly Hills, Westwood, West Los Angeles, Santa Monica, and other portions of Los Angeles.
CONTACT:
Vienna Montague, (916) 319-2051,
Vienna.Montague@asm.ca.gov