SACRAMENTO— A bill to require to require Continuums of Care (CoC) programs – a series of social services for the homeless – to include youth-specific entry points, assessment, and prioritization scores, and youth appropriate housing and services was approved today on a unanimous 11-0 vote in the Assembly Committee on Housing and Community Development. Assemblymember James C. Ramos (D-San Bernardino) introduced AB 249 sponsored by the California Coalition for Youth.
“This bill helps to close the gap in services for our homeless youth as soon as possible because of their great vulnerability without stable living conditions. Currently, CoC program services are allocated based on scores tied to duration of homelessness. Homeless youth frequently score lower on the list that then determines the types of services then available to them,” Ramos said.
Jevon Wilkes, Executive Director for the California Coalition for Youth stated, “It's time we develop the pathway for youth experiencing homelessness to gain access to housing and services to break the cycle of homelessness in a youth's life for good, and Asm. Ramos’ AB 249 will help us achieve this goal.”
Housing and Urban Development’s 2024 Point-In-Time reports the number of California homeless stands at 9,052. Yet, California’s K-12 educational system reported 8,831 unaccompanied homeless youth, of which 580 were temporarily unsheltered, in the 2023-24 school year. Research has found that the average wait time for a youth seeking any type of housing is four and a half months. Every day of waiting for housing services reduces a youth’s chances for stable housing by two percent.
Supporters include Alliance for Children’s Rights, Bill Wilson Center, California Alliance of Caregivers, California Apartment Association, California Court Appointed Special Advocate Association, California Now, Community Solutions, Covenant House California, Family Assistance Program, First Place for Youth, Home Start Inc., Larkin Street Youth Services, National Network for Youth, Orangewood Foundation, Ready for Life Host Homes, Redwood Community Action Agency’s Youth Service Bureau, Safe Place for Youth, San Diego Youth Services, Schoolhouse Connection, Sycamores and YMCA of San Diego County.
###
Assemblymember James C. Ramos proudly represents the 45th Assembly district which includes the Cities of Fontana, Highland, Mentone, Redlands, Rialto and San Bernardino. He is the first and only California Native American serving in the state’s legislature. Ramos chairs the Assembly Budget Subcommittee #6 on Public Safety.