PASADENA, CA
– Assemblywoman Pilar Schiavo today joined with a bipartisan coalition of state and local leaders as Governor Newsom signed a package of bills directing $2.5 billion toward wildfire relief, rebuilding, and recovery.
The bills take effect immediately, delivering urgently needed funding and streamlining the rebuilding process for communities devastated by the Southern California wildfires. Assemblywoman Schiavo, who voted for the measures today, highlighted the importance of this swift action to provide relief to impacted families throughout the region.
“This historic investment will help families rebuild faster and ensure that state agencies act with the same urgency as local governments,” said Assemblywoman Schiavo. “With billions in funding and new accountability measures, we are making sure communities have the resources they need to recover and rebuild. There is a long road ahead for those impacted and we will be here to support those impacted every step of the way”
Key Provisions In The Wildfire Recovery Package:
Funding: $2.5 billion
in state funding for wildfire response and recovery.
Transparency & Oversight:
New reporting requirements to track wildfire-response spending and ensure funds are used effectively.
School & Home Rebuilding:
$1 million
to accelerate planning for rebuilding damaged schools.
$4 million
to expedite building inspections and permits for residential reconstruction.
Maximizing Federal Aid:
Directs the state to seek the highest possible reimbursements for wildfire response and recovery costs.
In addition to supporting the Wildfire Recovery Package, Assemblywoman Schiavo introduced an additional piece of legislation (AB 301) - alongside Joint Author Assembly Speaker Robert Rivas - a key bill in the broader Assembly wildfire and housing package.
“Families shouldn’t be stuck in bureaucratic limbo when they’re trying to rebuild their homes,” said Assemblywoman Schiavo. “The legislation we introduced today (AB 301) streamlines state permitting and ensures communities can move forward without red tape slowing them down. This type of action will make for a speedier recovery and rebuilding effort, which is the least we can do for the families impacted by this unimaginable devastation.”
Details on Schiavo’s Legislation (AB 301):
Applies the
same permitting timelines
currently required of local governments to
state agencies
involved in post-entitlement housing reviews.
Ensures that
failure of state agencies to meet deadlines
results in automatic approval, preventing bureaucratic slowdowns.
Gives housing developers
certainty and predictability
in rebuilding efforts.
AB 301 is currently awaiting committee assignment.
###
Assemblywoman Pilar Schiavo was elected to the California State Assembly in November of 2022 and re-elected in 2024 to represent the 40th Assembly District, representing the Northwest San Fernando Valley, Val Verde, Castaic and the Santa Clarita Valley. Upon her election, she was appointed as Assistant Majority Whip by the Speaker of the Assembly and now serves as Chair of the Assembly Committee on Military and Veterans Affairs. Prior to her election, Assemblywoman Schiavo was a Nurse Advocate and Small Business Owner who worked in the labor movement for more than 20 years. Throughout her career, Assemblywoman Schiavo helped deliver healthcare, including reproductive healthcare, to more than one million people. In the Northwest San Fernando Valley, she co-founded an organization that helped secure housing for Veterans experiencing homelessness, has delivered more than 50,000 meals to people in need, and increased resources to help keep our communities safe. Assemblywoman Schiavo lives in Chatsworth with her creative kid where they love to hike in the Santa Susana Mountains.