SANTA CLARITA, CA
– Today, Assemblywoman Pilar Schiavo, alongside a delegation of state legislators, community leaders, and impacted residents, toured the Eaton fire recovery areas in Los Angeles and the burning Chiquita Canyon Landfill, raising alarm over the escalating growing disaster that has caused a public health crisis. The group convened for a response briefing by state agencies and joined impacted community members for a roundtable before holding a press conference at Castaic Community AME Church to call for additional urgent action in response to the worsening conditions at the landfill—the only fire still burning in Los Angeles County.
The landfill fire, which has been burning for years, more than doubled in size, expanding from an estimated 40 acres to over 90 acres. News broke of this major expansion of the underground fire just this week when CAL EPA reported updated temperature tracking data recently received from the landfill. During the tour, residents described worsening health issues from dangerous toxins in the air, respiratory issues, a possible cancer cluster and other health concerns, while legislators underscored the need for stronger oversight and emergency response measures from the state and county.
“This fire is a dangerous public health emergency that has gone on for far too long,” said Assemblywoman Pilar Schiavo. “Our communities deserve safe living conditions—not ongoing exposure to toxic fumes that are making them sick. I stand with our community to demand accountability, resources, and urgent action in a long overdue state of emergency to protect families who have been suffering for years now.”
Joining Schiavo on the tour were Majority Leader Assemblymember Cecilia Aguiar-Curry, Assemblymember John Harabedian, Assemblymember Steve Bennett, Assemblymember Stephanie Nguyen, Assemblymember Gail Pellerin, and Assemblymember Celeste Rodriguez.
"It’s unacceptable that families, especially our children, have been forced to breathe toxic air for years while waiting for government action. This isn’t an issue exclusive to the Chiquita Canyon Landfill. Air quality is a statewide concern that demands increased county, state, and federal intervention,” said Assembly Majority Leader Cecilia Aguiar-Curry. “Big picture, we need stronger statewide protections and emergency response plans to protect our communities and their kids from these kinds of disasters. We need to do better, because Californians deserve real solutions so we can breathe clean air."
"Seeing the devastation caused by the burning Chiquita Canyon Landfill firsthand, I was struck by how families are facing exposure to toxins, serious health risks, and uncertainty about how or when they will fully recover.” said Assemblymember John Harabedian. “As we’ve seen in responding to and recovering from the Eaton Fire, a robust, coordinated response makes a real difference in protecting lives and getting communities the help they need. That's exactly what we need here-aggressive action to contain the fire, ensure accountability, protect public health and provide relief for impacted residents."
Community members, many of whom live near the landfill, shared firsthand accounts of respiratory problems, persistent odors, rare cancers and possible cancer clusters leading to community fears about long-term exposure to hazardous emissions.
"Our community is so grateful that Assemblywoman Pilar Schiavo and other elected officials are taking this situation seriously. Our community desperately needs help and fast. The underground fire at Chiquita Canyon Landfill, which has now doubled in size, is making residents very sick. I am deeply concerned for the health of my family, my neighbors, and the people at nearby schools and businesses.” said Jennifer Elkins, a Val Verde resident who lives near the landfill. “The landfill has failed this community, LA county has failed this community, and so now we look to our elected officials for help. We need our government to take action to protect the people and stop this environmental disaster before it gets worse."
In addition to advancing legislation that would bring financial relief for residents, Assemblywoman Schiao continues to gather support from legislative colleagues to find other avenues at the state level to help the residents of Val Verde and Castaic find relief from the burning landfill. One of those avenues is a bill authored by Assemblywoman Schiavo that would make any compensation received by residents from Chiquita Canyon Landfill exempt from state taxes and excluded from counting against those who qualify for state assistance such as CalFresh. She also has a bill requesting funding, through the state budget, to assist residents with short or long-term relocation expenses, offering the necessary financial support to those who have no other option than to escape their community due to ongoing and severe health and environmental impacts and illnesses.
Until a state of emergency is declared, some relief continues to be unavailable to our community, such as possible mortgage and property tax relief, FEMA support, and more.
To watch the full press conference, click
here
. For more information or to schedule an interview, please contact Furkan Yalcin at furkan.yalcin@asm.ca.gov.
###
Assemblywoman Pilar Schiavo was elected to the California State Assembly in November of 2022 and re-elected in 2024 to represent the 40th Assembly District, representing the Northwest San Fernando Valley, Val Verde, Castaic and the Santa Clarita Valley. Upon her election, she was appointed as Assistant Majority Whip by the Speaker of the Assembly and now serves as Chair of the Assembly Committee on Military and Veterans Affairs. During her first term she brought back a record $93 million district investment in school and community safety, seniors meal programs, veteran housing, domestic violence services and creating local jobs. Prior to her election, Assemblywoman Schiavo was a Nurse Advocate and Small Business Owner who worked in the labor movement for more than 20 years. Throughout her career, Assemblywoman Schiavo helped deliver healthcare, including reproductive healthcare, to more than one million people. In the Northwest San Fernando Valley, she co-founded an organization that helped secure housing for Veterans experiencing homelessness, has delivered more than 50,000 meals to people in need, and increased resources to help keep our communities safe. Assemblywoman Schiavo lives in Chatsworth with her creative kid where they love to hike in the Santa Susana Mountains.