SACRAMENTO, CA –
Assemblymember Lisa Calderon (D-Whitter), Chair of the Assembly Insurance Committee, introduced Assembly bill (AB) 75, which seeks to keep insurance affordable for Californians by increasing aerial imaging inspection transparency and equipping homeowners with the necessary tools to maintain their insurance coverage.
“We are in the middle of an insurance crisis and Californians are facing non-renewals or policy cancellations, sometimes without justification,” states
Assemblymember Calderon
. “AB 75 empowers homeowners, especially those at risk of losing their policies due to undisclosed inspection practices.”
Aerial imaging has been integrated into the insurance industry to assist with processing claims and assessing property. The use of this technology is meant to help insurers conduct inspections and acquire detailed information that is not visible through a traditional home inspection.
While the practice has become widespread, many policyholders are concerned about the loss of insurance coverage for aerial imaging that was captured without their knowledge. A recent San Francisco Chronicle
article
details a class action lawsuit against an insurer for photos that presented seemingly unreliable data.
[1]
AB 75 requires insurers to provide a notice to homeowners at least 30 days prior to an inspection utilizing aerial imaging. It also requires insurers to provide policyholders with instructions on how to request the photos.
“Our constituents deserve to have access to important information regarding the coverage of one of their most valuable assets,” continues
Assemblymember Calderon
. “AB 75 is a step in the right direction, ensuring that we know how insurance companies are assessing properties.”
Assembly bill 75 was introduced on December 16th and awaits referral to a policy committee. For the latest updates on AB 75, and to track other pieces of legislation, visit
leginfo.legislature.ca.gov
.
Stay up to date on the latest in Assembly District 56 and my work in Sacramento by visiting my
website
.
###
[1]
Egelko, B. (2025, January 2). California homeowner sues Liberty Mutual, claims insurance dropped over “demonstrably false” photo. San Francisco Chronicle.
http://www.sfchronicle.com/politics/article/liberty-mutual-lawsuit-20011793.php