FRESNO, CA
– Assemblywoman Lori D. Wilson (D-Suisun City), Chair of the Assembly Transportation Committee, brought together local leaders, transportation officials, and community members for a regional meeting Thursday, July 17th at Fresno State University to discuss the future of funding for roads, bridges and other multimodal transportation projects in the San Joaquin Valley and throughout the state.
The regional meeting was the first in a series of planned community conversations Assemblywoman Wilson is leading across the state to engage Californians in an inclusive, multiyear conversation to shape policy solutions that ensure transportation infrastructure improvements are funded over the long term.
“As California leads the transition to fuel-efficient and zero-emission vehicles, we must modernize our transportation funding system in a way that is fair, accountable, and sustainable,” said Assemblywoman Wilson. “All stakeholders have a seat at the table to weigh in on solutions for maintaining and improving the safety of our multimodal transportation system.”
Assemblywoman Wilson was joined by representatives from the California Department of Transportation (Caltrans), the Legislative Analyst’s Office (LAO), and the California Transportation Commission (CTC). The meeting provided insight into California’s current transportation funding system, the state’s projected transportation funding needs, and funding solutions currently being examined in California.
"Whether manufacturers, ag producers, suppliers, or small businesses, our communities must move people and goods efficiently,” said Robert Poythress, Madera County Supervisor and California Road Charge Technical Advisory Committee Member. "It's crucial that our transportation system is funded fairly and affordably, and there must be transparency and accountability. Rural communities and big cities alike depend on it."
According to the CTC, the state’s projected transportation funding shortfall is expected to grow by approximately $31 billion over the next decade, as fewer drivers pay user-based fuel taxes that fund multimodal fixes and improvements for roads, bridges, and public transportation projects.
Stakeholder input from the meeting is being used to inform Assemblywoman Wilson’s efforts to identify a sustainable and equitable funding model that considers evolving technology and travel behavior.
“Transportation is the foundation of public safety, economic mobility, and opportunity,” Wilson added. “Our approach must be fair, transparent, and built to last. I’m grateful to everyone in Fresno who took time to engage thoughtfully on these important issues, and I look forward to bringing their input back to Sacramento.”
Missed the event? Catch the livestream replay here:
a11.asmdc.org/video/20250717-regional-transportation-funding-townhall-july-17-fresno-state
###
Assemblywoman Lori D. Wilson was elected in April 2022 to represent California’s 11th Assembly District which includes all of Solano County and portions of Contra Costa and Sacramento Counties. The District includes the Cities of: Benicia, Dixon, Fairfield, Oakley, Rio Vista, Suisun City, Vacaville and Vallejo.