SACRAMENTO –
This year, Assemblymember Mia Bonta (D-Oakland) has advanced 17 bills to the State Senate, advancing
a bold legislative package that reflects the needs and values of the East Bay by promoting housing development, protecting California from federal threats, expanding healthcare affordability and services, and more. This comes ahead of Friday’s deadline to advance bills out of their original chamber.
“At this moment, Californians are demanding we take bold, decisive action to deliver tangible wins for our community. I'm proud to bring the priorities of Oakland, Alameda, and Emeryville to the halls of power, advancing legislation that is grounded in the needs of our community. Rising costs, a chaotic federal administration, and promoting equity in our education and justice systems are among the issues my legislative package seeks to address, and I'm thankful for the support I've received on these crucial bills so far,”
said Assemblymember Mia Bonta.
“I look forward to advancing these conversations in the Senate to ensure California leads with progressive, compassionate, and evidence-based policies.”
The bills by Assemblymember Bonta advancing to the Senate this year are:
Protecting Reproductive Care:
These bills will advance California's leadership in maternal and reproductive health. While the federal government is attacking bodily autonomy, these bills will ensure that no one is turned away from care when they need it most, that no one has to jump through hoops to access birth control, and that Californians have access to safe and culturally concordant birthing options.
AB 40
– clarifies access to abortion in emergency health care settings.
AB 50
– ensures equitable access to over-the-counter birth control for Medi-Cal recipients.
AB 55
– streamlines burdensome licensure requirements for birth centers.
Community Support & Development:
Our community support and development bills will promote streamlined developments across the district to deliver housing and community-serving facilities. Additionally, these bills aim to address historical injustices and the ongoing impact of redlining that is still felt in our community.
AB 801
– seeks to uncover discriminatory mortgage lending practices to promote investment in our communities.
AB 1162
– introduces a bond requirement for CEQA lawsuits challenging community-serving projects.
AB 1296
– increases flexibility for school districts pursuing housing projects.
Responding to Federal Threats:
While still in its first few months, the federal administration has been belligerent in attacks on undocumented minor residents and nonprofits committed to immigration and environmentalism. These bills will ensure that California stands up for its values and protects its community members.
AB 1318
– protects non-profits from politically motivated targeting.
AB 1261
– requires counsel for unaccompanied minors in civil immigration proceedings.
Protecting Critical Health Care Services:
These bills will ensure crucial healthcare services and healthcare workers are protected across the state.
AB 350
– expands access to fluoride varnish services for children.
AB 489
– prevents AI from misrepresenting itself as a licensed professional.
AB 225
– authorizes state hospital funds to be used for the welfare of the patients of the institution.
Promoting Health Care Affordability:
These bills recognize that healthcare is among the fastest-growing expenses hitting California families' pocketbooks and seek to ensure they can access critical services while also providing state agencies with additional tools to prevent further price increases and rising healthcare costs.
AB 224
– expands coverage requirements to include fertility services, hearing aids, and wheelchairs in the individual and small group markets.
AB 789
– protect Californians from unreasonable health care rate increases.
AB 1415
– promotes oversight of private equity spending in health systems.
Combatting the School-to-Prison Pipeline and Cycles of Incarceration:
The following bills aim to break cycles of incarceration and promote evidence-based solutions to serve California's most vulnerable populations and give them the resources they need to lead fulfilling lives.
AB 938
– provides relief to survivors of human trafficking.
AB 1230
– reforms expulsion plans to support youth success.
AB 1376
– protects youth from endless probation sentences.
Assemblymember Bonta led some of the most-watched bills in the legislature last year and had 13 bills signed into law by the Governor.
###
Assemblymember Mia Bonta
represents California’s 18
th
Assembly District encompassing the East Bay including Oakland, Alameda, and Emeryville. She also chairs the Assembly Health Committee.
Courtesy photos can be found
HERE
.