SACRAMENTO, CA
– Today, Assemblywoman Esmeralda Soria (D-Merced), issued the following statement on the Governor’s proposed 2025-26 budget.
“
Governor Newsom’s 2025-2026 budget sets us on a path that is responsible and reflective of California values, but we must ensure a final budget includes accountability and oversight and meets the needs of our Central Valley communities.
I’m pleased to share that the 2025-26 budget includes
$45.1 billion
for three higher education segments, and the California Student Aid Commission. Out of these funds we find incredible investments in desperately needed financial aid for our California students, which include:
$3.1 billion
in total aid,
$2.6 billion for Cal Grants
, and
$527.2 million
for the
Middle-Class Scholarship
.
The budget also proposes
$2.7 billion
to implement the
$10 billion
Climate Bond. This plan will speed up projects to improve water quality in our homes, protect our communities from floods and droughts, and restore rivers and lakes in our region."
The budget provides
$134 million
for
Climate Smart Agriculture
projects which includes:
•
State Water Efficiency and Enhancement Program
—
$37.6 million
for improving irrigation systems on farms and ranches to save water and reduce emissions from pumping.
•
Healthy Soils Program
—
$35.9
million for sequestering carbon and reducing emissions through the implementation of soil health practices on farms and ranches.
•
Invasive Species Projects
—
$19.9 million
to fund invasive species projects and activities recommended by the Invasive Species Council of California.
"Additionally, the budget proposes
$24.9 million
for
Farm to School Roadmap for Success
programs. These investments will provide economic, environmental, and equity benefits to California communities who need it the most through the
California Farm to School Network
, the
California Farm to School Incubator Grant Program
, and the
Climate Smart Technical Assistance Program
.
A final budget will need to include accountability, oversight and ensure the needs of our Central Valley community are front and center. I’m looking forward to working with Governor Newsom, my colleagues in the Legislature and our stakeholders to finalize a state budget that works for all Californians.”
# # #
Assemblywoman Esmeralda Soria represents the 27th Assembly District which includes communities in Fresno, Madera, and Merced counties.