Sacramento, CA
– Assemblywoman Pilar Schiavo has been reappointed by Speaker Robert Rivas to the
Utilities & Energy Committee
,
Health Committee,
and continues as
Chair of Military & Veteran Affairs Committee.
She has also been newly appointed to the
Banking and Finance Committee
and the
Budget Committee
, including the budget subcommittee focused on health.
In response to the announcement, Assemblywoman Schiavo released the following statement:
"Californians are struggling with the rising costs of housing, insurance, utilities, and more. Over the last two years, I have worked alongside my colleagues to shape policies that tackle the affordability crisis in California, and there’s so much more work to do.
Through the Utilities and Energy Committee, I look forward to continuing efforts to reduce utility rates. And, building on the impact of 'Click-to-Cancel' (AB 2863) from the last legislative session, I’m excited for new opportunities on the Banking and Finance Committee to help consumers and protect your pocketbook.
As a former nurse advocate and with my continued role on the Health Committee and my new position on the Budget Committee and health subcommittee, I will keep working to reduce healthcare costs for families across California. I will also continue my work to protect access to critical services like maternity care, abortion care, and assistance programs to help everyone get the healthcare they need without cost being a barrier to care.”
###
Assemblywoman Pilar Schiavo was elected to the California State Assembly in November of 2022 and re-elected in 2024 to represent the 40th Assembly District, representing the Northwest San Fernando Valley, Val Verde, Castaic and the Santa Clarita Valley. Upon her election, she was appointed as Assistant Majority Whip by the Speaker of the Assembly and now serves as Chair of the Assembly Committee on Military and Veterans Affairs. Prior to her election, Assemblywoman Schiavo was a Nurse Advocate and Small Business Owner who worked in the labor movement for more than 20 years. Throughout her career, Assemblywoman Schiavo helped deliver healthcare, including reproductive healthcare, to more than one million people. In the Northwest San Fernando Valley, she co-founded an organization that helped secure housing for Veterans experiencing homelessness, has delivered more than 50,000 meals to people in need, and increased resources to help keep our communities safe. Assemblywoman Schiavo lives in Chatsworth with her creative kid where they love to hike in the Santa Susana Mountains.