PASADENA — Today, Speaker Robert Rivas and members of the California State Assembly gathered together at incident command at the Rose Bowl to announce legislation to fast-track recovery, keep fire victims housed, and allocate billions to help Los Angeles County recover.
“We are moving right now to keep Californians housed as recovery begins, speed up recovery, and approve billions of dollars in funding to kickstart toxic debris removal and rebuild and repair schools. Families must be able to send their children back to school immediately,” said Rivas (D-Salinas).
“Let me be very clear,” said Rivas, “We must reshape our state government so that we are better able to prevent disasters like this from happening again. All options must be on the table. We’ll have more to say on that real soon. Right now we want those affected by the fires to know that immediate help is on the way so you can begin to rebuild.”
The announcement comes after Speaker Rivas met with L.A. Assemblymembers and local officials, and visited the
Altadena, Malibu and Palisades communities.
Legislation Announced to Help Fire Victims
Stop new building standards:
L.A. homeowners need clarity on their path to rebuilding. A new bill from Assemblymember Nick Schultz (D-Burbank) would mandate no new additions to state or local building standards, unless required to address health and safety risks or to add fire resistant technology.
Accelerate state permit review for reconstruction
: Local governments are already required to follow specific approval timelines, depending on size of a project. This new law will require state agencies involved in permitting to follow the same guidelines, which will speed up building. Assemblymember Pilar Schiavo (D-Santa Clarita) is the author of this legislation.
Expedite construction of ADUs in the Coastal Zone
:
Authored by Assemblymember Rick Chavez Zbur (D-Hollywood), this legislation will change the law in the coastal zone so homeowners will no longer need to get a coastal development permit for an ADU. This policy works: In Sonoma County after the Tubbs Fire, the stock of available housing was so low that government encouraged ADUs, and this increased housing supply in the region.
Keep displaced Californians housed:
Under existing law, tenancy rights kick-in after 30 days for Angelenos staying in a motel or hotel or Airbnb. This means some short-term-rental landlords do not rent longer than 30 days. This law by Assemblymember Jesse Gabriel (D-Encino) will lift this 30-day rule for L.A. County.
Prohibit evictions if a tenant shelters wildfire victims or their pet:
This law will create a temporary eviction exemption to allow those displaced to remain in their temporary homes. Assemblymember Tina McKinnor (D-Inglewood) will author this legislation.
Statements from L.A. Delegation:
Assemblymember Jesse Gabriel (D-Encino):
“I want to express my deepest gratitude to the courageous firefighters, law enforcement officers, and emergency personnel who have risked their lives to protect our homes and loved ones. The Assembly is already working to support recovery efforts, help cut through red tape, and ensure displaced residents have access to safe and stable shelter.”
Assemblymember John Harabedian (D-Pasadena):
“I grew up in Sierra Madre and have always been proud of our community’s strength, diversity, and unity. This past week has tested us like never before, as many have lost homes, jobs, and places of worship,” said Assemblymember John Harabedian (D-Pasadena). “Recovery won’t be easy, but by supporting one another, I know we can rebuild and I’ll be with you every step of the way. I look forward to working with Governor Newsom, Speaker Rivas, and Pro Tem McGuire to provide swift relief to our community.”
Assemblymember Jacqui Irwin (D-Thousand Oaks):
“I am heartened by what I see within the communities impacted by the Palisades and Eaton Fires. Communities that are rallying behind those who have suffered the loss of their homes and businesses. What we heard today was a unified message, one voice speaking in unison, committed to doing whatever is possible to lessen the burden of the fire victims and expedite their return to normalcy. These are our friends, our neighbors, our families, who have suffered unimaginable losses as a result of these unprecedented fires. We want you to know that we stand beside you during these trying times.”
Assemblymember Tina McKinnor (D-Inglewood):
“On behalf of the bipartisan, 37 Members of the LA County Legislative Delegation, we have a simple message for our fellow Angelenos: we’ve got your back. LA County - we got you. The State of California will be with you now and in the days, months and years ahead as we rebuild from this devastating natural disaster. The LA County Legislative Delegation is unified in working closely with Speaker Rivas, pro Tem McGuire, Governor Newsom and our Republican colleagues to ensure that all necessary resources are made available to help LA County families and small businesses equitably rebuild.”
Assemblymember Pilar Schiavo (D-Chatsworth):
“As Californians begin the process of rebuilding from the devastating impacts of these wildfires, it’s critical that we stand united in supporting the victims and their families. I’m committed to working with my colleagues to ensure we bring the necessary resources and long-term solutions to recover and rebuild stronger than before. That’s why I am authoring legislation with Speaker Rivas to make sure the State rises to the occasion to speed up state permitting and get housing built quickly - removing red tape so our community can recover.”
Assemblymember Rick Chavez Zbur (D-Hollywood):
"We are committed to supporting the people of Los Angeles as they rebuild in the wake of these devastating wildfires. Our focus is not only on rebuilding structures but also on restoring hope and stability for families affected by this crisis. Together with my colleagues, we are introducing critical legislation that will expedite recovery efforts and ensure that our communities can rebuild stronger than ever. We must meet this challenge with urgency and determination—it is our moral imperative to support those who have lost so much. I want to express my gratitude to Assembly Speaker Rivas and his team for jumping into action and bringing us together for L.A.”
To watch the YouTube livestream, click here.
###
For additional information, please contact:
Speaker Robert Rivas Press Secretary,
Cynthia.Moreno@asm.ca.gov
.
Speaker of the Assembly Robert Rivas represents California’s 29th Assembly District, which includes all of San Benito County and portions of Monterey, Santa Cruz, and Santa Clara Counties. For a full biography of Speaker Rivas, click
here
.