SACRAMENTO, CA
–
In response to the rising threats and violent incidents against public transit workers and passengers, Assemblywoman Lori D. Wilson (D-Suisun City) has introduced
AB 394
, a critical piece of legislation aimed at enhancing safety protections across California’s transit systems. This bill is part of Assemblywoman Wilson’s Transportation Safety Bill Package, a comprehensive effort focused on protection, prevention, and progress. Through this package, she is working to strengthen safety across California’s transportation network and save lives.
“Every Californian deserves to feel safe when using public transportation—whether they are operating a bus, working in a station, or simply riding to their destination,”
said Assemblywoman Lori D. Wilson.
“Violence and threats against transit workers and riders have escalated, and it is our responsibility to take action. AB 394 strengthens protections, holds offenders accountable, and ensures that public transit remains a reliable and safe option for millions of Californians.”
AB 394 expands existing legal protections by strengthening penalties for assaults against transit employees, broadening enforcement against trespassing on transit systems, and empowering courts to issue prohibition orders restricting access to individuals convicted of violent offenses against transit workers.
Public transit is a cornerstone of California’s economy and sustainability goals, serving millions of residents and visitors daily. However, an increase in violent incidents has put operators, station agents, and enforcement officers at risk, undermining confidence in the safety and reliability of public transportation.
“California’s public transit systems are a key component to everyday life for millions of riders. However, threats and violence against our riders, operators, and employees is on the rise, and many are concerned for their safety
,” said Michael Pimentel, California Transit Association Executive Director.
“Assembly Bill 394 takes the necessary steps to ensure that the safety of these individuals continues to be a priority for California. We are grateful to Assembly Member Wilson for working on behalf of our agencies, our workers, and our riders to ensure we have the tools in place to make our transit systems a safe, reliable, and convenient option for all Californians.”
"California’s transit workers are on the front lines every day, ensuring millions of riders get to their destinations safely across the state. Too often, our members are subjected to violent assaults and harassment simply for doing their jobs,"
said Jeff Shaffer, President of ATU Local 1277 and President of the California Conference Board of the Amalgamated Transit Union.
"AB 394 is a critical step toward protecting transit workers by holding offenders accountable and keeping repeat violent offenders off our buses, trains, and stations. This legislation will help ensure our members can focus on their jobs without fear for their safety and keep transit safe for riders. We urge lawmakers to stand with frontline transit workers and support this important bill."
AB 394 is co-sponsored by the California Transit Association and the California Conference Board of the Amalgamated Transit Union. The bill is part of Assemblywoman Wilson’s broader effort to improve transportation safety, ensuring that every Californian—whether a driver, passenger, or pedestrian—can travel safely and with confidence.
###
Assemblywoman Lori D. Wilson was elected in April 2022 to represent California’s 11th Assembly District which includes all of
Solano County and portions of Contra Costa and Sacramento Counties. The District includes the Cities of: Benicia, Dixon, Fairfield, Oakley, Rio Vista, Suisun City, Vacaville and Vallejo.