HAYWARD, CA
- One day after the Consumer Price Index revealed
unexpectedly high inflation numbers across nearly all categories of consumer goods
, Assemblymember Liz Ortega (D-San Leandro) introduced legislation to recover federal tax dollars and make prescription diapers free for families enrolled in Medi-Cal. “Californians pay more money in taxes to the Federal government than we get back in services or assistance,” Ortega said.
“Diaper costs are astronomical―up to $100 per month per child―which can be a big financial burden for many California families,”
said Assemblymember Ortega
. “We can recover some of the excess money we send to Washington DC to make a difference for parents and families who are working hard to make ends meet.”
"More than 1 in 4 households with children are facing hunger, and we know that when families struggle to put food on the table, they are also struggling to meet other basic needs. That's why it is no surprise that diapers are one of the most frequently requested non-food items at food banks and charitable organizations," said Stacia Levenfeld, CEO of the California Association of Food Banks, cosponsor of the bill.
The Consumer Price Index
released Wednesday
showed a 3.3 percent year-over-year increase in core inflation, with key diet staples like
eggs up 53% in the last year
(due in part to the avian flu) and fuel up over 6 percent in January. This follows a bruising few years of inflation in which
consumers saw prices jump 13% in 2022-23
.
“Few basic needs are as foundational as diapers,” said Shimica Gaskins, President and CEO of GRACE/End Child Poverty California, cosponsor of the bill. “Not only is a steady supply of diapers vital for children’s healthy development, it is necessary for parents struggling to make ends meet to access child care and be able to work.”
“It is unacceptable that families are forced to choose between feeding their families and buying diapers for their kids, while Californians continue to pay more to the federal government.” said Assemblymember Ortega. “My bill ensures we take full advantage of our federal tax dollars to provide for this basic and essential need.”
Under AB 636, children enrolled in Medi-Cal who have a prescription for diapers can receive them at no cost through a federal program within Medicaid, the Early and Periodic Screening, Diagnostic and Treatment (EPSDT) benefit. Under the proposed law, we would join other states, including New York, West Virginia, and Idaho that have already done what I want California to do.”
AB 636 is expected to be heard in the Assembly Health Committee in March or April.
Assemblymember Ortega can be available for press today from 3:00 to 5:00p.m. For press availability, contact M.V. Watson at (210) 667-5046 (text preferred.)
###
Assemblymember Liz Ortega is Chair of the Assembly Committee on Labor & Employment and sits on the Assembly Committees on Budget; Insurance; Privacy and Consumer Protection; Arts, Entertainment, Sports, and Tourism; and Budget Subcommittee No. 5 on State Administration. She represents the 20th Assembly District, encompassing all or a portion of the cities of Hayward, San Leandro, Union City, Dublin, Pleasanton and the unincorporated areas of Ashland, Cherryland, Fairview, San Lorenzo, and Castro Valley.
###