Introduced by Assemblymember Rick Chavez Zbur, AB 648 will combat housing insecurity and homelessness among community college students while also addressing California’s broader housing crisis by increasing the supply of affordable housing in local communities.
SACRAMENTO, CA
– Today, Democratic Caucus Chair and Assemblymember Rick Chavez Zbur (D-Hollywood) introduced AB 648, a bill designed to combat housing insecurity and homelessness at California Community Colleges (CCC) by streamlining the development of student and staff housing. Sponsored by Santa Monica College, the bill ensures that CCC districts have the authority to build housing on property they own or lease—just as they do for educational facilities—while eliminating barriers that slow or prevent construction. In addition, this bill would be a significant benefit in addressing our housing crisis by opening up affordable units in communities that students and staff would have otherwise occupied.
"This bill is aimed at addressing housing insecurity for our community college students and staff and preventing homelessness. California’s community college students face some of the highest rates of housing insecurity and homelessness in the state. By eliminating barriers to the construction of critical housing projects, California will take another bold step toward tackling our affordable housing crisis," said
Assemblymember Zbur
. "Housing is a fundamental need for community college students and staff. This legislation will cut through red tape and ensure that students can focus on their studies and staff can focus on their work without the stress of not knowing where they will sleep at night."
According to a 2024 report by the California Legislative Analyst’s Office, more than half of California’s community college students faced housing insecurity in 2023, and about a quarter of those nearly 2 million students have experienced homelessness. Additionally, recent findings from a 2023 Basic Needs Survey of over 66,000 students at 88 community colleges found that 3 out of 5 students were housing insecure and 1 in 4 students were homeless.
The University of California (UC) and California State University (CSU) systems already have the authority to build student housing regardless of how their properties are zoned. Despite their past as commuter schools, California Community Colleges have become an integral part of the education system and a key stepping stone allowing marginalized populations to access higher education. This bill will clarify that the community colleges have the same authority as the UCs and CSUs and allow CCCs to build housing quickly and efficiently without having to endure an unnecessary and burdensome rezoning process.
"Without housing for our low-income students, poverty cycles continue in perpetuity,"
said Donald Girard, a representative of Santa Monica College
. "Having practical autonomy to move community college housing projects forward quickly will address the crisis of housing affordability and reduce barriers to student success for current and future generations."
AB 648 will be referred to policy committee in the coming weeks.
Assemblymember Rick Chavez Zbur serves as the Democratic Caucus Chair for the California State Assembly and represents the 51st Assembly District, which includes Universal City, Hollywood, Hancock Park, West Hollywood, Beverly Hills, Westwood, West Los Angeles, Santa Monica, and other portions of Los Angeles.
CONTACT:
Vienna Montague, (916) 319-2051,
Vienna.Montague@asm.ca.gov