Assemblymember Harabedian Stands with Governor Newsom to Mark Six-Month Anniversary of LA Wildfires and Reaffirm Commitment to Recovery
(Sacramento, CA) —
Today,
Assemblymember John Harabedian (D-Pasadena)
stood alongside
Governor Gavin Newsom
at a press conference commemorating the six-month anniversary of the devastating Los Angeles wildfires. Together with community leaders, first responders, and survivors, they discussed the state’s continued commitment to fire recovery, and continued path of resilience.
”Six months later, the pain and loss are still very real for so many families,” said
Assemblymember Harabedian
. “Today is about coming together to strengthen our resolve and continue to stand alongside survivors every step of the way. I've worked to advance legislation that puts people first, because true recovery means restoring lives and rebuilding communities.” said
Assemblymember John Harabedian
.
In the months following the fires, Assemblymember Harabedian worked alongside his colleagues to approve more than $2.5 billion in emergency wildfire relief to support recovery efforts- helping communities recover, rebuild, and prepare for the growing threat of climate-driven disasters.
Since taking office, Assemblymember Harabedian has introduced a comprehensive package of fire-recovery legislation to expand mental health care, accelerate housing recovery, and protect survivors from predatory financial practices. These include:
AB 238 – The Mortgage Forbearance Act
Allows homeowners in wildfire areas to defer mortgage payments without penalties or foreclosure risk for up to an additional 12 months
AB 239 – State-Led Disaster Housing Task Force
Creates a State-Led Disaster Housing Task Force to coordinate housing recovery efforts in wildfire-impacted areas of Los Angeles and Ventura County
AB 493 – Disaster Interest Accrual Act
Ensures that at least 2% interest earned on post loss insurance payments go to homeowners instead of banks
AB 597 – Insurance Payment Protection Act
Prohibits public adjusters from charging for payments unrelated to their services or received before the contract
AB 797 – The Community Stabilization Act
Enables IBank to oversee a program using investor-backed securities to stabilize property values in disaster-hit areas
AB 1032 – Wildfire Trauma Recovery and Resiliency Act
Requires health plans and insurers to cover up to 12 behavioral health visits in or out of network annually for enrollees in wildfire emergency areas
Even beyond his legislative package, Assemblymember Harabedian will continue to fight to make sure recovery efforts are swift, just, and centered on the people who need help most.
#####
Assemblymember John Harabedian represents the 41st District composed of the cities of La Cañada Flintridge, Pasadena, Altadena, Sierra Madre, Monrovia, Bradbury, San Dimas, La Verne, Claremont, Upland, Rancho Cucamonga, Oak Hills, Piñon Hills and Phelan.