SACRAMENTO, CA – This week, Assemblymember Connolly (D-San Rafael) successfully passed four bills out of their respective policy committees in the State Assembly. This includes:
AB 846
(Wildfire Preparedness),
AB 419
(Immigrant Rights Education),
AB 674
(Clean Cars 4 All), and
AB 1140
(Single-Occupancy Cell Pilot Program).
“I am proud to see each of these important bills clear their first hurdle in the legislative process,” said Assemblymember Connolly. “We are continuing to tackle pressing issues and make real progress on streamlining wildfire preparedness, protecting our immigrant communities, reducing vehicle pollution, and making our correctional institutions safer. Each of these bills takes an important step towards addressing the needs of the people and communities we serve across California.”
AB 846:
will provide a clear process to accelerate and streamline wildfire preparedness and vegetation management, helping our communities respond faster to wildfire risks while protecting vulnerable ecosystems.
Passed out of the Assembly Water, Parks, and Wildlife Committee with unanimous and bipartisan support.
AB 419:
helps our immigrant student community by requiring schools to post the “Immigration-Enforcement Actions at California Schools Guide for Students and Families” in schools and on their website. This will ensure that immigrant students and families know what their rights are, what information is required for school enrollment, and what steps they can take to protect their information.
Passed out of the Assembly Judiciary Committee with 9 “AYE” votes.
AB 674:
improves the Clean Cars 4 All program, which helps lower-income consumers replace older, high-polluting vehicles with cleaner transportation. This bill will help reduce pollution in the communities most affected, and move us closer to a cleaner, healthier future for all Californians
.
Passed out of the Assembly Transportation Committee with 15 “AYE” votes.
AB 1140: authorizes a pilot program for safety improvements in prisons by utilizing single-occupancy cells, which better protects correctional employees and inmates.
Passed out of the Assembly Public Safety Committee with unanimous and bipartisan support.
###
Assemblymember Connolly represents the entirety of Marin County and Southern Sonoma County