AB 1138, authored by Assemblymember Rick Chavez Zbur, Assemblymember Isaac Bryan and Assemblymember Sharon Quirk-Silva, along with companion bill SB 630, authored by Senator Ben Allen, will strengthen and modernize the California Film & Television Tax Credit, keeping productions and jobs in California.
SACRAMENTO, CA
– Legislation to strengthen California's film and television industry took a major step forward, as the Assembly Committee on Arts, Entertainment, Sports, & Tourism passed
AB 1138, the California Film & Television Jobs Act
, to retain and expand entertainment industry jobs, boost small businesses that support production, and reinforce California's status as the global leader in creativity and innovation.
AB 1138
, along with companion bill
SB 630
, is authored by
Assemblymember Rick Chavez Zbur (D-Hollywood) and State Senator Ben Allen (D-Santa Monica)
, along with joint authors
Assemblymember Isaac Bryan (D-Los Angeles) and Assemblymember Sharon Quirk-Silva (D-Fullerton)
, and
Senator Caroline Menjivar (D-San Fernando Valley), Senator Sasha Renee Perez (D-Pasadena) and Senator Henry Stern (D-Los Angeles).
The legislation is a direct response to the growing threat of production flight, which has already led to significant job losses and economic impact across California. AB 1138 and SB 630 seek to reverse this trend by making California's tax credit program more competitive with other states and countries, supporting small businesses and thousands of union jobs tied to the entertainment industry.
"California's film and television industry isn't just part of our cultural identity—it's an economic powerhouse that supports hundreds of thousands of good-paying jobs," said
Assemblymember Rick Chavez Zbur.
"But without swift action, we risk losing it all. AB 1138 & SB 630 are about making sure California stays competitive, so that workers aren't forced to leave the state — or the industry they love — just to make a living. This is a jobs bill, a small business bill, and a bill to keep our creative economy right where it belongs: here in California."
"We know how economically impactful our entertainment industry is, not just for Los Angeles but for the state as a whole," said
Senator Ben Allen
. "It was great seeing this recognition today through the strong support of committee members who represent regions across California. We all share a common goal as provided through SB 630 and AB 1138—bringing overdue support to a vital workforce which has seen production leave our state in droves over recent years."
"Today's committee vote to pass AB 1138 sends a clear message to California's entertainment workers, storytellers, and the thousands of businesses that service this industry in all corners of the state," said
Assemblymember Isaac Bryan
. "We see you, we value you, and we will fight for you."
"California's film and television industry is part of who we are as a state. As productions move elsewhere, we risk losing not just jobs, but a piece of our cultural identity," said
Assemblywoman Sharon Quirk-Silva.
" I am proud to support AB 1138 and SB 630, and I thank Assemblymember Zbur and Senator Allen for their leadership in keeping California the heart of the entertainment world. This bill helps ensure that the workers and families who power this industry can continue to thrive right here at home."
AB 1138 now heads to the Assembly Revenue and Taxation Committee for further consideration.
Assemblymember Rick Chavez Zbur serves as the Democratic Caucus Chair for the California State Assembly and represents the 51st Assembly District, which includes Universal City, Hollywood, Hancock Park, West Hollywood, Beverly Hills, Westwood, West Los Angeles, Santa Monica, and other portions of Los Angeles.
Ben Allen represents the 24th State Senate District, which consists of the Westside, Hollywood, coastal South Bay, and Santa Monica Mountains communities of Los Angeles County.
Isaac Bryan represents California's 55th Assembly District which consists of Baldwin Hills, the Crenshaw District, Culver City, Ladera Heights, Mar Vista, Del Rey, Palms, Pico-Robertson, Beverly Grove, Mid-Wilshire, and large parts of South Los Angeles.
Assemblywoman Sharon Quirk-Silva represents the 67th Assembly District, which includes the Orange County communities of Anaheim, Buena Park, Cypress, Fullerton, and La Palma, as well as the Los Angeles County communities of Artesia, Cerritos, and Hawaiian Gardens.
MEDIA CONTACTS:
Vienna Montague (Zbur) |
vienna.montague@asm.ca.gov
Ben Cheever (Allen) |
ben.cheever@sen.ca.gov
Theresa Southerland (Bryan) |
theresa.southerland@asm.ca.gov
William Pond (Quirk-Silva) |
william.pond@asm.ca.gov