SACRAMENTO – Assemblymember Dr. Joaquin Arambula (D-Fresno) has authored two bills – Assembly Bill 341 and Assembly Bill 1220 – that seek equity in services for individuals with developmental disabilities. Both bills have advanced to the California Senate.
AB 1220
would address inconsistencies in the State Department of Developmental Services’ California Regional Center system, which currently doesn’t have to regularly document or publicly report when services are denied regarding an Individual Program Plan. AB 1220 would require these centers to document any denials, notices of action, and appeals. In addition, the bill ensures that the department’s overall annual report includes all data regarding denials, notices of action, and appeals.
AB 341
seeks to provide all Californians with access to quality and timely dental care. This legislation will increase the availability of specialized dental care for patients with complex health challenges. It establishes the Oral Health for People with Disabilities Technical Assistance Center to present training and educational materials on alternative methods to provide oral health services to people with disabilities.
If the two bills – which have bipartisan support – are approved in the Senate (and successfully reviewed in the Assembly, if amendments are added by the Senate), they will advance to the Governor’s desk for consideration.
Assemblymember Arambula said:
“Californians with developmental disabilities deserve the right to live full and independent lives. I’m grateful that the bills have received bipartisan support in the Assembly, and that my Assembly colleagues recognized their importance to those with developmental disabilities and their families. These two bills seek changes that are long overdue and will afford these people the services, respect, and dignity they deserve.”
The Arc of California, a nonprofit committed to the human rights and inclusion of people with intellectual and developmental disabilities, supports both bills. In addition, El Arc de California supports AB 1220.
Joe Perales, Director of El Arc de California, saidof AB 1220
: “This bill will empower families, increase transparency, and provide the data needed to identify and address systemic disparities. By making patterns of service denials and appeals visible, AB 1220 lays the groundwork for reforms that ensure equity and accountability across California’s developmental disability services system. By making date visible and decisions accountable, AB 1220 ensures that California’s developmental services system is more equitable, responsive, and just for all.”
AB 341
addresses the need to better serve dental patients with complicated medical, physical, cognitive, or behavioral challenges. The lack of understanding of alternative methods for oral health services has led to the overuse of sedation or general anesthesia. As a result, many people with disabilities are on waitlists for months or years.
Pat Hornbecker, President of The Arc of California Board of Directors
, said AB 341 is crucial for families like hers. Her son was on a waitlist for four years to gain access for an assessment and services. By the time he could be seen, his dental issues had progressed to the point that seven teeth had to be removed, eight fillings done, and generalized gum surgery performed in his entire mouth.
Hornbecker, a retired dental hygienist, said:
“The bill was written to address the extreme lack of access to dental services for even the most basic dental care like cleanings, X-rays, preventive maintenance … this bill is designed to allow better access to assessments and preventive treatment and without the use of total sedation methods currently commonly used.”
#####