SACRAMENTO — As Donald Trump pushes to rig the rules of our democracy so Republicans can cling to power in Congress, Assembly Speaker Robert Rivas joined Speaker Emerita Nancy Pelosi, Governor Gavin Newsom, Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren, Senate President pro Tempore Mike McGuire, and Texas and California Democratic lawmakers to fight back against the unprecedented power grab.
"California Democrats will not allow Trump’s Republican Party to rig the system and take permanent control of the U.S. House of Representatives,” said
Speaker Robert Rivas (D-Salinas)
, “We are prepared and we will fight fire with fire. We will do whatever it takes to defend our democracy. We will do whatever it takes to protect the voices, the votes and the rights of every American.”
Trump’s attempt to cheat his way to Republican control of the House isn’t just another redistricting fight — it’s a brazen attack on representative government, and a threat to the people who lawmakers are sworn to protect.
Texas Democrats, who are taking action to block Republican efforts in their state, joined California leaders and lawmakers in downtown Sacramento and stood united in defending and empowering voters to resist and defend California.
“The President has paved over the Rose Garden, he has paved over freedom of speech, he has paved over freedom of education — the list goes on and on. Independent judiciary, rule of law—paved over. But we will not let him pave over free and fair elections in our country,”
House
Speaker Emerita Nancy Pelosi
said during Friday’s press conference.
“Donald Trump is tipping the scales of justice toward injustice for us all — he realizes his agenda is so unpopular that he’d rather rig the next election and prevent voters from holding him accountable and provide a check on his deeply unpopular policies. California stands ready to flex its muscle to ensure the integrity of our democracy nationwide,”
Governor Gavin Newsom
said.
“Today, we are at a flash point set in play by Donald Trump and Texas Republicans who see the writing on the wall that they’ll lose the midterms — and they’re trying to cheat to win,”
Senate President pro Tempore Mike McGuire
said. “President Trump’s cynical ploy to redraw congressional maps in Texas is rotten to its core. It is our sacred responsibility to defend our democracy and the people of the Golden State, so if Texas moves forward, we need to be prepared to do the same.”
Members of the Assembly Democratic Caucus who attended Friday’s event also echoed the Speaker’s commitment to protecting California, democracy and working families, emphasizing the urgent need to confront Trump head-on.
"It’s troubling that some people, including the president and national Republicans, think it's fine to mess with the system for political gain with mid-decade redistricting. Why? Because they know people don’t support their agenda of gutting health care, killing programs that working people and the poor depend upon, separating immigrant families, and hurting American small businesses and consumers with reckless tariffs,” said
Assembly Majority Leader Cecilia Aguiar-Curry (D-Winters)
. “Here in California, we believe in fair play and transparency, which is why we have independent redistricting to protect democracy. But, we can’t roll over while Trump cheats.”
“California will always defend the right to vote—and the will of the people. Voters made it clear: they want independent redistricting, not partisan power grabs. Unlike Texas, we won’t silence that voice. We’ll send this issue to the ballot box—where it belongs,”
Assemblymember Anamarie Ávila Farías (D-Concord)
said.
“When an unprecedented power grab by the Trump administration threatens to destabilize the foundations of our Democracy, we can and must do everything necessary to stand in the way and fight for what is right. That is who we are in California,”
Assemblymember Isaac Bryan (D-Los Angeles
) said.
“Redistricting should be about making sure every voice counts. President Trump and Texas Republicans are using it to drown out the voices they do not want to hear, especially communities of color and working families. Their manipulation of our democracy is wrong and we will not sit on the sidelines. We will call out the injustice, protect representation, and make sure our democracy reflects communities like mine,”
Assemblymember Avelino Valencia (D-Anaheim)
said.
Speaker Rivas reinforced a commitment to California voters seeing all the maps and casting the ultimate decisions — the most transparent process in the country. Members also insisted on sustaining the independent commission.
The stakes could not be higher. This is an emergency. And California must fight back.
###
For more information, follow Speaker Robert Rivas at the following social media channels:
Instagram:
@CaSpeakerRivas
Facebook:
www.facebook.com/CASpeakerRivas/