Santa Clarita, CA
– As wildfires and hurricane force winds continue to devastate Southern California, Assemblywoman Pilar Schiavo, Chair of the Committee on Military and Veteran Affairs, expressed her gratitude to the California National Guard (Cal Guard) for their swift and robust support in the fight against the growing fires. The Assemblywoman emphasized the critical role of Cal Guard in supplementing Cal FIRE’s efforts to protect lives, property, and natural resources across the region.
Nearly 180,000 residents have been evacuated, with an additional 200,000 under evacuation warnings. Tragically, five lives have been lost, with further injuries reported. Economic losses are estimated to range in the billions.
In response to this crisis, Cal Guard has mobilized significant resources to assist in firefighting and law enforcement operations:
Wildland Firefighting Teams
: Over 200 personnel across 10 hand crews assigned to Cal FIRE.
Military Police Deployment
: 400 soldiers activated from Los Alamitos and Ontario, with an additional 200 soldiers ready for assignment.
Aerial Support
: 10 rotary wing aircraft conducting bucket-dropping operations when weather conditions allow.
Airborne Firefighting Systems
: Two Modular Airborne Firefighting Systems aircraft staged for operations.
“The bravery and dedication of the Cal Guard, Cal FIRE, and all of our first responders cannot be overstated,” said Assemblywoman Schiavo. “Fighting fires in the face of hurricane force winds is nearly impossible. Their efforts are saving lives, protecting homes, and ensuring the safety of our communities during this critical time. My office is here as a resource to those affected by these devastating fires.”
Assemblywoman Schiavo reiterated her commitment to supporting legislation and securing resources to bolster California’s wildfire response capabilities. Her office continues to monitor the situation closely and is ready to assist displaced residents and affected communities.
Southern California is facing an unprecedented wildfire season, with five major fires burning thousands of acres:
Palisades Fire
: Over 17,000 acres burned in Pacific Palisades, east of Malibu.
Eaton Fire
: Spanning more than 10,000 acres in the national forest north of downtown Los Angeles.
Hurst Fire
: Currently at 855 acres with 70% containment in a neighborhood north of San Fernando.
Sunset Fire
: 60 acres burned in Hollywood Hills near Runyon Canyon; now fully contained.
Lidia Fire
: Covering 348 acres between the Sierra Pelona and San Gabriel Mountains with 75% containment.
For additional resources or assistance, please contact Assemblywoman Schiavo’s office at (661) 286-1565 or visit
a40.asmdc.org
.
###
Assemblywoman Pilar Schiavo was elected to the California State Assembly in November of 2022 to represent the 40th Assembly District, representing the Northwest San Fernando Valley and the Santa Clarita Valley. Upon her election, she was appointed as Assistant Majority Whip by the Speaker of the Assembly and now serves as Chair of the Assembly Committee on Military and Veterans Affairs. Prior to her election, Assemblywoman Schiavo was a Nurse Advocate and Small Business Owner who worked in the labor movement for more than 20 years. Throughout her career, Assemblywoman Schiavo helped deliver healthcare, including reproductive healthcare, to more than one million people. In the Northwest San Fernando Valley, she co-founded an organization that helped secure housing for Veterans experiencing homelessness, has delivered more than 50,000 meals to people in need, and increased resources to help keep our communities safe. Assemblywoman Schiavo lives in Chatsworth with her daughter Sofia where they love to hike in the Santa Susana Mountains.