FRESNO – Assemblymember Dr. Joaquin Arambula (D-Fresno) has chosen Debbie Darden, a longtime community advocate and champion for West Fresno, as Woman of the Year for the 31st Assembly District for 2025.
The announcement comes as Women’s History Month is celebrated in March. Each year, Assemblymember Arambula recognizes an honoree who is making a difference through focused, inspired, and resolute efforts to uplift her community.
Darden will be among the women to be lauded today, March 10, during a ceremony at the State Capitol. The event is part of the annual recognition by the California Legislative Women’s Caucus to spotlight women who are making a positive impact in their communities.
Born in Fresno and a lifelong resident of West Fresno, Darden has devoted her life to bringing equity and equal opportunity to West Fresno.
Assemblymember Arambula said:
“I’ve known Debbie for years and have always been highly impressed by her tenacious dedication to the West Fresno community. She is a tireless advocate for programs and services that historically had not been available or accessible to her community. Debbie’s work includes leading efforts to sustain and rebuild the Cecil C. Hinton Center and championing the construction of the Rutherford B. Gaston Middle School. She is a trusted and respected voice for her community, and I’m proud to name Debbie the Woman of the Year for the 31st Assembly District.”
Darden said of the honor:
“I have always been one who loves working in and for my community. The rewards are often slow coming but are long lasting.”
Darden has collaborated with numerous groups and organizations to work toward the shared goal of shaping, developing, and enhancing West Fresno. She is board president for the Cecil C. Hinton Community Center and has served as chair of the Black American Political Association of California. She’s also been chair of the Golden Westside Planning Committee and served on many political and government committees.
Darden is known for her determination to see proposed projects come to fruition. She was an avid, vocal advocate for the construction of Gaston Middle School, which opened in 2014 – the Fresno Unified School District campus was the first middle school built in Southwest Fresno in 35 years.
Darden also was a strong voice during the Transformative Climate Communities funding process, through the California Strategic Growth Council. Investments ultimately were made in Southwest Fresno. This included construction of Fresno City College’s West Fresno Center, which has opened up community college opportunities for residents in West Fresno.
#####