FRESNO—
Speaker Robert Rivas and Assemblymembers Esmeralda Soria (D-Merced), Dr. Joaquin Arambula (D-Fresno), and Celeste Rodriguez (D-San Fernando) hosted a community discussion last Thursday, bringing together local and state leaders to listen and learn how best to protect California’s immigrant communities and their contributions to the state economy.
Participants from the Central Valley included more than two dozen labor and business groups, immigrant advocacy nonprofits, and other organizations that serve the diverse communities across the region.
Thursday’s conversation took place after Assembly Democrats’ recent vote to approve $25 million in funding for legal assistance for Californians and immigrant communities, supporting pro bono legal services for especially vulnerable Californians, including immigrant veterans, people with disabilities, unhoused youth, those facing eviction, seniors, and victims of domestic violence, wage theft, and human trafficking.
What Speaker Robert Rivas Says
“We are up against a chaotic deportation agenda by the White House and Republicans in D.C. that will harm California’s economy, so we must work together to fight back. This President’s radical policy of fear threatens our immigrant workers, who pay billions in taxes each year and are the backbone of so many industries, and also jeopardizes our immigrant children, students and families. Here in Fresno, I stand with the groups and leaders on the frontlines, and we will defend our immigrant communities and their incredible contributions to California.”
What Assemblymember Esmeralda Soria Says
“Simply put, I would not be here today if it weren’t for two hardworking immigrant farmworkers from Mexico who came here to give their children a shot at the American Dream. At times it was not easy for us, but we were still given everything we needed to achieve that dream. This is personal for me. The attacks on our immigrant communities from this new administration must stop. This roundtable will provide us with a unique opportunity to address serious concerns faced by our most vulnerable communities here in the Central Valley and throughout California.”
What Assemblymember Dr. Joaquin Arambula Says
“I and members of my Fresno office have talked with many people in the immigrant community in my district, where recent Border Patrol actions have occurred. These Californians – our neighbors, friends, and coworkers -- are upset by what already has happened and fearful of what looms in the coming days. I’ve talked with students who are anxious that their parents may be taken away, or other relatives may be detained.
“We must protect our immigrant workers and families. We must ensure that they receive the constitutional rights and due process to which they are entitled. I also stand by the State Legislature’s recent approval to allocate funds to support and defend Californians threatened with deportation. Many of the people in our immigrant community have lived here for years or decades and paid their share of taxes. They have been integral to strengthening our State’s economy and enriching our cultural and social lives. We must stand for what’s right – we must stand with them.”
What Assemblymember Celeste Rodriguez Says
“We have strong immigrant communities across California that make our state great. In the face of the threats and attacks by the federal government, it is critical that we hear from service providers, educators, and advocates that work to protect our most vulnerable communities every day. We joined leaders in the Central Valley that lifted up the needs of those they serve, especially the need to build capacity through expanding funds, prioritizing mental health issues during this difficult time and protecting Medi-Cal for All. My colleagues, Assemblymembers Soria and Arambula have been longtime champions in these efforts and I look forward to partnering with them in this important work. I appreciate Speaker Robert Rivas for continuing these roundtable discussions that will inform the critical decisions we need to make in Sacramento.”
Key leaders who represent nonprofits serving the immigrant community in Fresno and throughout the Central San Joaquin Valley made their voices heard and shared the experiences and challenges they are facing, while also providing opportunities for discussion, as well as solutions.
What Immigration Groups Say
“We are grateful for Speaker Robert Rivas, Assemblymember Esmeralda Soria, Assemblymember Dr. Joaquin Arambula, and Assemblymember Celeste Rodriguez
for leading this critical CA Legislative Immigration Roundtable conversation. This event reinforces that we are being heard and recognized by our legislators, giving us a second wind to continue our boots-on-the-ground efforts. Laws that exist to protect the immigrant population are being circumvented, spreading fear among families and children, who not only are part of our communities, but also contribute significantly to our local and state economy through their work, taxes, and purchasing power. We urge state legislators to allocate the necessary resources in the budget to support access to immigration legal services, particularly in the Central Valley, and reiterate the need to protect, respect, and uphold the laws that exist to protect immigrant rights.” -
Margarita Rocha, Executive Director, Centro La Familia Advocacy Services
“I want to extend my sincere gratitude to Speaker of the Assembly Robert Rivas, Assemblymember Esmeralda Soria, Assemblymember Dr. Joaquin Arambula, and Assemblymember Celeste Rodriguez for their unwavering commitment to supporting the immigrant community in the Central Valley. Your dedication to assisting those on the ground who work tirelessly to provide critical services is truly commendable. Your continued support is essential in strengthening the capacity for immigration legal assistance in the Central Valley and ensuring sustained funding for the invaluable work carried out by nonprofit organizations. We deeply appreciate your leadership and advocacy during these critical times and look forward to continued collaboration in advancing these efforts.” -
Priscilla Ramos, Advocacy and Community Organizing Manager at Education and Leadership Foundation
Economic Impact of California Immigrant Workers
California immigrants pay nearly $130 billion annually in state and federal taxes (
USC CA Immigrant Data Portal 2021
)
88% of farmworkers in CA are immigrants—that’s 880,000 people. Approximately half are undocumented. (
JBS International for the US Department of Labor
)
Immigrants hold one-third
of all tourism and hospitality jobs in California. (
LA Times Analysis of 2022 US Census Data
)
We must rebuild LA and increase affordable housing. Neither will happen without immigrants, who make up 41% of the construction workforce. (
National Association of Homebuilders 2023
)
50% of certified nursing assistants in CA nursing homes are immigrants. (
Health Affairs 2021
), and about 40% of child day-care workers.
(
LA Times Analysis of 2022 US Census Data
)
California immigrants contribute $715 billion in gross domestic product. (
CA Immigrant Policy Center 2016
)
In 2022, undocumented immigrants contributed
$8.5B
in state and local taxes — an amount that would rise to
$10.3B
if these taxpayers were granted work authorization.
(Institute on Taxation and Economic Policy (ITEP) 2022)
###
For additional information, please contact:
Speaker Robert Rivas Press Secretary,
Cynthia.Moreno@asm.ca.gov
.
Speaker of the Assembly Robert Rivas represents California’s 29th Assembly District, which includes all of San Benito County and portions of Monterey, Santa Cruz, and Santa Clara Counties. For a full biography of Speaker Rivas, click
here
.