SACRAMENTO, CA – Assemblymember Connolly (D-San Rafael) was appointed chair of the Assembly Select Committee on Wildfire Prevention. The committee covers issues related to wildfire prevention and resilience by bringing together experts, community members, state agencies, and government officials to discuss wildfire-related challenges and solutions.
“
In recent years, Californians have faced devastating losses from increasingly frequent and intense wildfires
,” said Assemblymember Connolly. “I look forward to leading this committee with urgency, transparency, and a deep sense of responsibility to harden our communities against wildfire and protect our natural resources for generations to come
.
”
The Select Committee on Wildfire Prevention, which Assemblymember Connolly has chaired since its creation during the 2023-24 legislative session, covers rebuilding efforts in areas affected by wildfires to prevent and mitigate risk from future wildfire events. The committee is tasked with issues related to wildfire prevention including infrastructure, home hardening, defensible space, community resilience, and wildfire mitigation programs.
The Select Committee on Wildfire Prevention will engage Assemblymember Connolly’s legislative colleagues, particularly those with districts that are impacted by the Los Angeles fires and other areas within the state that are at high risk. The select committee will also include participation from relevant state agencies, including CalFIRE and Cal OES. The committee will host informational hearings on wildfire mitigation and community preparedness, with a focus on efforts to rebuild the affected communities in areas that have already been impacted by wildfires. The Select Committee on Wildfire Prevention will provide the California State Legislature with the opportunity to focus on vital elements of wildfire issues, and collaborate on how California can best rebuild to prevent future wildfires.
###
Assemblymember Connolly represents the entirety of Marin County and Southern Sonoma County