SACRAMENTO, CA – Assemblywoman Esmeralda Soria (D-Merced) has released the following statement regarding the California Legislature’s approval of the 2025-2026 budget.
“We are facing tough decisions this year, likely even harder decisions next year regarding California’s budget,”
Soria said. “
We are working within the constraints we have. Still, I believe this is a sound, and responsible budget for California.
Over the next coming months, we will continue to fight hard for our Central Valley families.
”
IHSS & Long-Term Care
“In-Home Supportive Services or (IHSS), is important to me, it’s personal for me. Some of us have elderly parents with dementia, and children with special needs who rely on IHSS workers. Workers who dedicate their lives to provide the best quality of life to our loved ones.
This
budget rejects Governor Newsom’s proposed IHSS cuts
.
It also rejects the Governor’s proposed cap limit for IHSS employees when it comes to overtime payments.”
Medi-Cal & Health
“I proudly represent Madera, Merced, and Fresno counties, some of the most underserved portions of California that heavily rely on Medi-Cal.
60 percent of my constituents rely on Medi-Cal. This budget rejects the Governor’s proposal to bring back ‘asset tests’.
If the Governor’s proposed asset test was reinstituted, it would mean Californians would not be eligible for Medi-Cal if their assets totaled more than $2,000 per individual. Millions of Californians who rely on Medi-Cal and IHSS could lose eligibility under this proposal, and
we said NO
.”
Public Safety
“This budget
provides $110 million dollars to implement Prop 36
, something the voters and I overwhelmingly supported. The budget also provides funds to backfill the Victims of Crime Act (VOCA), to support organizations helping crime survivors, including victims of human trafficking.”
The budget now moves to the Governor’s desk, where it awaits his signature.
# # #
Assemblywoman Esmeralda Soria represents the 27th Assembly District, which includes communities in Fresno, Madera, and Merced counties.