SACRAMENTO, Calif. (April 10, 2025) – Assemblymember Mike A. Gipson (D-Carson), who Chairs the Select Committee on Ports & Goods Movement, has issued the following statement alongside others in response to the Trump Administration's tariff announcement on April 2 and again on Wednesday of this week:
"As Chair of the Select Committee on Ports & Goods Movement, I am deeply concerned about the impact of Trump's tariffs on California's economy, especially in the ports and goods movement sectors," said Assemblymember Mike A. Gipson. "These absurd taxes, which initially included 24% on Japan, 25% on South Korea, and 34% on China, but are now paused everywhere else but toward China (now 125%) are damaging to trade and manufacturing, and threaten to slow down the vital flow of goods through the Los Angeles-Long Beach port complex—one of the nation's busiest trade hubs. While Canada and Mexico are somewhat shielded from the tariffs, other goods, including cars, still face high levies. This disruption in trade is especially harmful as Los Angeles and the surrounding areas recover from wildfires and rely more on imports. Tariffs threaten to trigger a recession, undermining manufacturing and supply chains rather than fostering growth. It is vehemently irresponsible for any acting President to impose the type of policies that, with almost 100% certainty, will crash the market. I will continue to advocate for policies that protect California's economic interests and ensure our ports remain a key driver of prosperity."
"The various tariffs being levied by our government, as well as those by foreign counties in retaliation, will undoubtedly lead to supply chain disruptions impacting ILWU members and other supply chain stakeholders, agricultural exporters and the local manufacturing community," said Gary Herrera, President of the International Longshore and Warehouse Union Local 13. "Meanwhile, consumers all over this country will pay inflated prices for every good imaginable, if those goods are available for purchase at all."
After the April 2 tariff announcement, California Governor Gavin Newsom communicated plans to urge trading partners to exempt California-made products from retaliatory tariffs following Trump's announcement. The Governor emphasized that California is a stable trade partner and directed his administration to seek new trade opportunities. Newsom called the tariffs as "the largest tax hike of our lifetime" and stated that his office is actively connecting with international partners to find solutions, with more updates expected in the coming days and weeks.
Assemblymember Mike A. Gipson proudly represents the 65th Assembly District which includes the cities and communities of Watts, Willowbrook, Compton, Carson, North Long Beach, Harbor Gateway North & South, Harbor City, Wilmington, and San Pedro.
CONTACT:
EJ Aguayo, ej.aguayo@asm.ca.gov, (916) 319-2065