Irvine, CA
– On Saturday, Assemblywoman Cottie Petrie-Norris and Second Harvest Food Bank of Orange County hosted a Harvest Solutions Farm Volunteer Event in Irvine to help harvest seasonal produce so that Orange County residents have consistent access to nutritious food creating a foundation for community health and well-being. Nearly 110 volunteers harvested over 14,000 pounds of zucchini and yellow squash that will be distributed to individuals and families served by Second Harvest Food Bank of Orange County's distribution network of nearly 400 partners and pantries.
“Second Harvest Food Bank Food Bank of Orange County is doing extraordinary work to fight food insecurity and bring fresh, nutritious produce to families across Orange County,” said
Assemblywoman Cottie Petrie-Norris (D-Irvine)
. “I’m proud to bring volunteers together at Harvest Solutions Farm to support this vital mission — working side by side to grow fresh food, strengthen community bonds, and make a meaningful impact.”
"With food prices still elevated due to inflation and the end of pandemic-related support, the need for food assistance in Orange County continues to be significant,” said
Claudia Keller, CEO of Second Harvest Food Bank of Orange County
. “Harvest Solutions Farm plays a critical role in helping us maintain a consistent supply of fresh, nutritious produce for those we serve during this challenging time. We’re deeply grateful to our dedicated volunteers and supportive elected leaders who make the ongoing success of Harvest Solutions Farm possible."
Since the launch in August 2021, Harvest Solutions Farm has produced over 7.5 million pounds of fresh, nutritious produce that has been distributed to those experiencing food and nutrition insecurity in our community. Each week, Harvest Solutions Farm harvests between 50,000 to 60,000 pounds of fresh fruits and vegetables, which is distributed within days to people in need throughout Orange County. Harvest Solutions Farm is a collaboration with Solutions for Urban Agriculture and the University of California South Coast Research & Extension Center. Since April 2023, volunteers have helped harvest over 46,200 pounds of fresh produce during the Assemblywoman’s Harvest Solutions Farm volunteer events.