Assemblymember Rick Chavez Zbur introduced AB 891, a bill that will require Caltrans to develop a quick-build bike lane and intersection program that will swiftly and inexpensively improve highway safety for bicyclists and pedestrians.
SACRAMENTO, CA –
Today, Democratic Caucus Chair and Assemblymember Rick Chavez Zbur (D-Hollywood) introduced AB 891, a bill that will require Caltrans to develop quick-build bike lane and intersection projects to improve safety on state highways for cyclists and pedestrians. Sponsored by the California Bicycle Coalition, AB 891 would condense timelines, reduce planning and engineering costs, and expand safe, active bicycle infrastructure and safety improvements across the state.
"Traffic violence—crashes involving cars, bicyclists, and pedestrians—is rising at an alarming rate in California," said
Assemblymember Zbur.
"Simple bikeway and intersection improvements can provide significant safety benefits, and as more Californians turn to alternative transportation, these changes should be implemented more quickly and effectively. By developing quick-build projects statewide, we can deliver critical safety infrastructure faster while allowing local jurisdictions to plan for more permanent, community-driven solutions over time."
Recent traffic collision data compiled by the City of Los Angeles shows there was a 6% increase in traffic fatalities in 2022 from the previous year, and a staggering 29% over 2020. The latest report by the California Office of Traffic Safety (OTS), traffic fatalities climbed to 4,285 in 2021, marking a 7.6% increase from 2020. Recent data by the City of San Francisco shows that in 2024 alone, there were 42 traffic fatalities.
Quick-build projects are interim capital infrastructure projects that require minor construction activities and are built with durable, low- to moderate–cost materials, and lasts one to five years. These projects are intended to immediately address safety needs by allowing a community to benefit quickly from improvements while providing the opportunity to test project improvements before they are permanently constructed.
"The planning process at Caltrans can take several years, and during that time more vulnerable road users will be injured or killed on our state roadways. Caltrans should have the same ability to respond quickly to remediate known hazards that local governments have,"
said CalBike Policy Director Jared Sanchez.
"This pilot will also show the way to build safe bikeways and intersections quickly. California has a huge deficit of active transportation infrastructure; we can't wait years or decades to build streets that encourage walking, biking, and taking transit."
AB 891 will be referred to policy committee in the coming weeks.
Assemblymember Rick Chavez Zbur serves as the Democratic Caucus Chair for the California State Assembly and represents the 51st Assembly District, which includes Universal City, Hollywood, Hancock Park, West Hollywood, Beverly Hills, Westwood, West Los Angeles, Santa Monica, and other portions of Los Angeles.
CONTACT:
Vienna Montague, (916) 319-2051,
Vienna.Montague@asm.ca.gov