SACRAMENTO, CA
– Today, Assemblywoman Esmeralda Soria (D-Merced), introduced AB 457, which would streamline the process to provide affordable housing for farmworkers in California.
“
As a first-generation American, daughter of Central Valley farmworkers, and Chair of the Assembly Agriculture Committee, I’m proud to introduce AB 457
,” Soria said. “
This bill will increase the supply of low cost housing for our state’s farmworkers. I can’t underscore this enough: California farmworkers are the backbone of our agricultural economy, which is the largest in the nation. It is vital that we have a more streamlined process to boost our housing supply for this essential workforce in California.”
AB 457 extends the approval process and California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) exemption for affordable farmworker housing within 15 miles of farm or grazing land in the Counties of Fresno, Madera, and Merced
.
“Like many of the Central Valley’s agricultural communities, Firebaugh has a pressing need for dignified, affordable housing for our farmworkers,”
said Firebaugh Mayor Freddy Valdez.
“These workers are the beating heart of our community and our agricultural economy. I applaud Assemblywoman Soria for her introduction of AB 457, which streamlines the approval of farmworker housing in our county, and we are grateful for her efforts on behalf of our residents.”
“With agriculture at the core of Merced County’s economy, ensuring the farmworkers I represent have affordable and adequate housing is critically important,”
said Merced County Supervisor Josh Pedrozo
. “The streamlined approval process that AB 457 provides would be essential in promoting the development of farmworker housing that our constituents need. I want to thank Assemblywoman Soria for her hard work on this bill and her efforts supporting us on this issue. We are looking forward to the Assemblywoman’s continued work supporting our farmworker communities.”
To ensure the farmworkers of the Central Valley’s agricultural heartland have the affordable and dignified housing they deserve, we must streamline the process for approving new developments on the most fitting sites.
###