My heart breaks for the families, communities and beloved Southern California landmarks devastated by these wildfires. The loss of homes, the fear and uncertainty faced by tens of thousands forced to evacuate – this is an unimaginably difficult time for so many. Last night, large portions of Santa Monica and other parts of Southern California were subject to mandatory evacuation orders.
The city has issued an evacuation order for Montana Avenue from the beach to 11th street. This is a legal order from the City of Santa Monica and this area must evacuate. For more information about these evacuations and all fires, please monitor updates on
CalFire
.
Your safety and the safety of your loved ones, pets and neighbors, must be the top priority at this time. Please follow all evacuation orders and safety directives from local authorities.
I am working closely with the Governor's Office of Emergency Services, the Assembly Speaker's Office and my colleagues in the Legislature, fire and safety officials to address the most urgent needs identified by our local officials in our communities, including expanding access to evacuation centers and hotels, clean water, medical supplies and essential resources. Additionally, we are monitoring gas and utility shut-offs to homes and businesses as a precautionary measure to prevent further fires.
I want to thank our first responders, as well as local elected officials in Santa Monica, Beverly Hills, West Hollywood and the City of Los Angeles, for their dedicated work under challenging circumstances. They have been working around the clock to address the needs of the many people affected by this crisis.
To everyone impacted: you are not alone. Members of my own family were evacuated yesterday from a fire zone, as well as many friends and members of my staff and their families. I am devastated that I have several close friends who lost their homes yesterday.
I want you to know that my staff and I are fully committed to doing everything in our power to help protect lives, support recovery efforts and rebuild our communities in the wake of this devastation. Please contact the office
online
or call (323) 436-5184.