SACRAMENTO, CA —
Today, members of the California State Assembly and State Senate announced an agreement on comprehensive bipartisan wildfire public safety legislation. Assembly Bill (AB) 468 and Senate Bill (SB) 571 both passed their respective Public Safety Committees and will now be joined together with contingent enactment language.
AB 468, authored by Assemblymember Jesse Gabriel (D-Encino), Assemblymember Jacqui Irwin (D-Thousand Oaks), and Assemblymember Blanca Pacheco (D-Downey), strengthens penalties for looting, closes harmful loopholes that hinder prosecution, and provides additional protections to communities as they rebuild following wildfires and other disasters.
SB 571, authored by Senator Bob Archuleta (D-Pico Rivera), Senator Jesse Arreguín (D-Berkeley), Senator Suzette Valladares (R-Santa Clarita), reinforces California’s commitment to standing with wildfire survivors not only during the emergency, but throughout the long journey to recovery. This bill will strengthen penalties for individuals who decide to impersonate first responders and other officials.
Background
In the months following the devastating Southern California fires, impacted communities have been victimized further by widespread looting. In Altadena, theft from homes has skyrocketed by nearly 450% compared to the prior year. Residents have shared stories of multiple robberies on the same property, theft of historic and cultural artwork, and even an Emmy award. Directly following the fires, law enforcement arrested dozens of individuals for looting and impersonation-related charges, including two individuals from Oregon charged with impersonating firefighters in the Palisades Fire evacuation zone.
These actions pose significant risks to public safety and undermine evacuation efforts, leading to confusion and potentially deterring residents from following critical public safety guidance. Crimes like these endanger both the public and the first responders dedicated to protecting them.
Together, this comprehensive package will provide stronger deterrence and better protect communities.
What California Legislators are Saying:
Assemblymember Gabriel Says
“Individuals who put our firefighters at risk and prey on communities when they are at their most vulnerable must be held accountable. Looters – particularly those who impersonate emergency personnel – create chaos and confusion, endanger residents and first responders, undermine public trust in evacuation orders, divert critical emergency resources, and victimize communities that already have suffered unimaginable harm. I am proud to join efforts to provide law enforcement with better tools to crack down on looting and impersonation, and thank my colleagues for their leadership on this important issue.”
Senator Archuleta Says
“Impersonation of first responders double victimizes individuals who have lost their homes and their stability.  Communities can’t trust the directions of public safety officials if they are unsure who to trust. These abusers and their actions undermine evacuation orders, local officials’ authority, and victims’ peace of mind. Ensuring the public can trust first responders and local public safety officials is crucial in keeping communities safe, especially during states of emergency when victims are in disarray. This bill, as part of the Senate Wild Fire Package and in partnership with Senator Arreguin, Senator Valladeres, and Assemblymember Gabriel, provides hurting communities with the necessary tools to ensure the safe and speedy recovery of their residents.”
Senator Arreguín Says
“As Chair of the Senate Public Safety Committee and joint author of SB 571 -- part of the Senate’s Golden State Commitment --  I thank Assemblymember Gabriel for his leadership after the Los Angeles fires.  Together, the Legislature is advancing new laws to protect Californians during their most vulnerable moments when they are impacted by a natural disaster or another emergency by increasing penalties for criminals who loot, impersonate first responders, or commit aggravated arson.”
Senator Valladares Says
“Government’s first and most essential responsibility is to protect its citizens—especially the most vulnerable,” said Senator Suzette Martinez Valladares
(R-Santa Clarita)
. “This legislation sends a clear and unmistakable message: those who prey on victims, will face serious consequences. I’m grateful to the Assembly Public Safety Committee for advancing this legislation to hold criminals accountable and to restore safety in our communities.”
Assemblymember Pacheco Says
"Communities devastated by wildfires should never have to live in fear of people looking to exploit their trauma,” said Assemblywoman Blanca Pacheco (D-Downey). “This legislation ensures that anyone who preys on vulnerable families and erodes trust in our first responders will face the full consequences of their actions."
Next Steps
SB 571 and AB 468 now head to the Senate Appropriations and Assembly Appropriations Committees, respectively, where they will be heard when the Legislature returns from Summer recess.