SACRAMENTO
– Assemblymember Ash Kalra (D-San José) introduced AB 268 to designate Diwali as an official state holiday. Diwali is a festival of great significance to Indian Americans and South Asian Americans and is celebrated annually by Hindus, Sikhs, Buddhists, and Jains across the globe.
“Designating Diwali as an official state holiday not only recognizes the festival's religious and historical importance but will better enable those throughout the Indian diaspora and beyond to take part in one of the world's oldest religious holidays,” said
Assemblymember Kalra
. “With AB 268, California also cultivates a greater understanding and appreciation for the diverse cultures and faith traditions that enrich our state.”
“This is a historic moment! It's an honor to be a joint author on AB 268, officially recognizing Diwali in state law for the first time. Diwali, the festival of lights, symbolizes the triumph of light over darkness and reflects California's commitment to diversity and inclusivity. AB 268 will help create a brighter future for all Californians,” said
Assemblymember Patel
(D-San Diego).
Diwali is popularly known as the “Festival of Lights” during which celebrants light small oil lamps, place them around the home, and pray for health, knowledge, and peace. The word “Diwali” is a shortened version of the Sanskrit term “Deepavali,” which means “a row of lamps.”
AB 268 is principal co-authored by Senator Allen (D-Santa Monica) and co-authored by Assemblymembers Ahrens (D-Sunnyvale), Bains (D-Delano), Lee (D-San José), and Ward (D-San Diego) and Senators Cortese (D-San José) and Wahab (D-Hayward).
###
Assemblymember Ash Kalra
is the first Indian American to serve in the California State Legislature and represents California’s 25th Assembly District, which encompasses the majority of San José, including downtown and open space areas in southeast Santa Clara County. He was first elected in 2016 and was re-elected to his fifth term in 2024. Assemblymember Kalra is the Chair of the Committee on Judiciary and also serves as a member on the Housing & Community Development, Labor & Employment, Natural Resources, and Utilities & Energy committees.