SACRAMENTO, CA
– Today, Assemblywoman Pilar Schiavo joined a press conference on the West Steps of the State Capitol, organized by community members from Val Verde, Castaic, and the Santa Clarita Valley, to call attention to the growing public health disaster at the Chiquita Canyon Landfill.
Impacted residents raised the alarm about the worsening underground fire at the landfill, now growing from 30 to 90 acres, and urged support for legislative and budget solutions to help community members suffering daily from exposure to toxic gasses.
“As Assemblywoman, it is my job to do all I can to keep our community safe, which is why I will never stop fighting for the families impacted by this growing disaster,” said Assemblywoman Pilar Schiavo. “This landfill is making people sick with cancer, tremors and ER visits just to be able to breathe - and it’s now expected to continue to do so for decades. We need urgent action, real accountability, and resources to help residents who are living through this public health disaster every single day.”
The Chiquita Canyon Landfill, which has been burning underground since 2022, has more than tripled in size and continues to release toxic gases, prompting respiratory issues, nosebleeds, cancer clusters, and environmental damage. Constituents who joined today’s press conference shared firsthand accounts of the toll this disaster has taken on their health and livelihoods, underscoring the urgent need for a direct relief.
“This is not just about a landfill, this is about the air we breathe and the health of our families, and the responsibility really of the people who are in charge who are supposed to serve and protect us,” said community member Elizabeth Jeffords. “The Chiquita Canyon Landfill has been poisoning our air for far too long, we suffer every single day. We need help immediately.”
To ensure relief for impacted residents, Assemblywoman Schiavo has introduced legislation to exempt compensation from either the landfill or government from being taxed or counted against public benefits (AB 27), and to ensure long-term oversight and accountability of the landfill (AB 28). She has also submitted budget proposals to provide $25 million in relocation assistance and long-term support for affected families. These measures aim to bring urgently needed relief to communities who have suffered for far too long.
To watch the full press conference,
click here
.
###
Assemblywoman Pilar Schiavo was elected to the California State Assembly in November of 2022 and re-elected in 2024 to represent the 40th Assembly District, representing the Northwest San Fernando Valley, Val Verde, Castaic and the Santa Clarita Valley. Upon her election, she was appointed as Assistant Majority Whip by the Speaker of the Assembly and now serves as Chair of the Assembly Committee on Military and Veterans Affairs. During her first term she brought back a record $93 million district investment in school and community safety, seniors meal programs, veteran housing, domestic violence services and creating local jobs. Prior to her election, Assemblywoman Schiavo was a Nurse Advocate and Small Business Owner who worked in the labor movement for more than 20 years. Throughout her career, Assemblywoman Schiavo helped deliver healthcare, including reproductive healthcare, to more than one million people. In the Northwest San Fernando Valley, she co-founded an organization that helped secure housing for Veterans experiencing homelessness, has delivered more than 50,000 meals to people in need, and increased resources to help keep our communities safe. Assemblywoman Schiavo lives in Chatsworth with her creative kid where they love to hike in the Santa Susana Mountains.