SACRAMENTO—
Speaker Robert Rivas and fellow Assembly Democrats moved with urgency on Monday to protect our economy, vulnerable Californians and immigrant workers in the face of threats from the White House and Republicans in Washington.
Democrats voted overwhelmingly to pass two bills:
A
legal defense fund
that allocates $25 million for the California Department of Justice to protect California taxpayers and the state’s economy from hostile action in Washington, including the recent
“Republican Freeze.”
Funding for immigration Legal Aid and Services
organizations, which assist veterans, students, renters, families, victims of domestic violence and law-abiding immigrants who pay more than $130 billion annually in state and federal taxes and contribute over $1 trillion yearly to the California economy. In a letter of direction, the Legislature stated that this bill’s funding does not go to legal defense for people convicted of violent and serious felonies.
The legislation will strengthen California’s ability to fight unlawful and unconstitutional actions by the Trump administration. The bills pass on the heels of President Trump’s reckless attempt to freeze Congressionally approved federal funding, loans and grants last week, which jeopardizes funding for small business loans, schools, housing assistance, nonprofit grants, wildfire protection and Southern California wildfire relief, and health care and research.
What Assembly Speaker Robert Rivas Says
“At a time when Washington is being dragged-down by unprofessional, chaotic behavior, here in California we are focused on results. This year, our priority is cost of living and housing. But Californians are being threatened by an out-of-control administration that doesn’t care about the Constitution and thinks there are no limits to its power. That is why we are delivering legislation that will allocate resources to defend Californians from this urgent threat. We are here today because we do not trust President Donald Trump.”
What Assembly Budget Chair Jesse Gabriel Says
“While we always hope to collaborate with our federal partners, we also have a responsibility to protect California taxpayers and to defend the fundamental rights of all Californians. For that reason, we cannot – and will not – stand idly by if the Administration breaks the law or violates the U.S. Constitution. Californians should rest assured that we will vigorously protect both their fair share of federal dollars and their fundamental constitutional rights.”
How These Bills Work
SBX1-1
would amend the 2024 Budget Act to include a State Litigation Fund, allocating $25 million to the Department of Justice to assist in protecting California residents and taxpayers. For instance, if the federal government withholds emergency aid after a natural disaster, such as the L.A. firestorms, the fund will allow the DOJ to pursue legal recourse to secure the emergency aid from the federal government, providing California taxpayers with billions of dollars.
SBX1-2
amends the Budget Act to add funding for Legal Services, including $25 million for legal assistance for Californians and immigrant communities. Our Assembly’s direction is crystal clear and in writing: This funding goes toward supporting free legal services for especially vulnerable Californians, including veterans, people with disabilities, unhoused youth, those facing eviction, seniors, and victims of domestic violence, wage theft and human trafficking. Per the Legislature’s direction, funding will not be used for legal services defending those convicted of a violent or serious felony.
What California Community Leaders Say About a Legal Defense Fund to Protect Our Economy
“We applaud the Senate, Assembly and Governor for acting to ensure California has the resources necessary to act if federal policies will negatively impact Californians. The recent memo from the Office of Management and Budget raised serious questions of the potential impacts of abrupt cuts in federal funding, which could have consequences for healthcare delivery, disaster recovery, emergency response, and other critical government functions. This action is not about antagonizing the federal government but instead being prepared to protect our residents if policy action taken at the federal level has intended, or unintended, negative consequences on the communities we serve.”
— Brian K. Rice, President, California Professional Firefighters
"Federal funding and programs are critical to helping safety net providers be a lifeline for millions of Americans. We can’t play politics with people’s lives. We thank the State of California for acting swiftly to put the necessary resources in place to respond to any threats to our federal programs and funding." —
Louise McCarthy, President & CEO, Community Clinic Association of Los Angeles County
“This $50 million funding package is about survival for the small and minority-owned businesses that form the backbone of our local economy, many of which face steep challenges in accessing capital, contracts, and protections. The Trump administration’s freeze on federal funds has only deepened this uncertainty. We are grateful to the legislature for taking action to help ensure these businesses have the resources they need to thrive.” —
Pepi Jackson, President & CEO, Riverside County Black Chamber of Commerce
“California students and schools rely on federal funds every day. I see it in our district — this support is crucial. The threatened freeze of federal dollars puts incredibly important programs, like special education — at risk. We have to be in a position to protect our schools, and the children in them. So I support the Legislature’s actions today, because nothing is more important than the well-being of the next generation.”
— Gina Clayton-Tarvin, School Board Trustee, Ocean View School District of Orange County
“Western Center applauds the Legislature’s passage of SBX1-1 and SBX1-2 to proactively protect low-income Californians who need food, healthcare and shelter to survive. When the whole system is threatened—like it was last week—legislation that provides California with the resources to fight against these threats to safety net programs is critical. Programs like Medi-Cal, SNAP, and WIC provide vital healthcare access, help food-insecure families put food on the table, and are essential to ensure that every Californian has their basic needs met. Continued funding to legal aid organizations — which often act as the first line of defense for low-income and immigrant communities facing civil legal issues — is paramount, and Western Center wholly supports the necessary budget reinforcement to stand strong against injustice and discriminatory policies that further jeopardize families already suffering economic hardships.” —
Linda Nguy, Associate Director of Policy Advocacy, Western Center on Law and Poverty
“We, the immigrant community of CA, feel seen and supported with the passage of bills in Sacramento today. They are important and necessary for CHIRLA’s mission to create a just society fully inclusive of immigrants. Since 1986, we have been working hard to advance the human and civil rights of immigrants and refugees in California. We have always supported policies that advance justice and full inclusion for all immigrants. As one of the largest immigrant rights organizations in the country, we remain committed to organizing, educating and defending immigrants and refugees in the streets, in the courts, and in the halls of power. We will not allow the Trump administration to threaten, harm or derail our efforts to continue to protect those who contribute so much to our great state, especially when the stakes are so high and the rhetoric is so inhumane. We will continue to defend our immigrants.”
— Angélica Salas, Executive Director, Coalition for Humane Immigrant Rights (CHIRLA)
How a Legal Defense Fund Protect California’s Businesses, Workers and Families
It is estimated that the Department of Justice spent approximately $40 million on legal defense to protect billions of dollars for California between 2016 and 2021 (according to
CalMatters
). Successful defenses included:
California ensured the Department of Energy could finalize efficiency rules, generating more than $8 billion in savings for ratepayers (
NRDC
)
DOJ secured nearly $60 million in federal public-safety grant reimbursements (
SacBee
)
According to
CalMatters
: “Trump lost about two-thirds of cases filed against his administration” between 2016 and 2021
Economic Impact of California Immigrant Workers
California immigrants pay nearly $130 billion annually in state and federal taxes (
USC CA Immigrant Data Portal 2021
)
88% of farmworkers in CA are immigrants—that’s 880,000 people. Approximately half are undocumented. (
JBS International for the US Department of Labor
)
Immigrants hold one-third
of all tourism and hospitality jobs in California. (
LA Times Analysis of 2022 US Census Data
)
We must rebuild LA and increase affordable housing. Neither will happen without immigrants, who make up 41% of the construction workforce. (
National Association of Homebuilders 2023
)
50% of certified nursing assistants in CA nursing homes are immigrants. (
Health Affairs 2021
), and about 40% of child day-care workers. (
LA Times Analysis of 2022 US Census Data
)
California immigrants contribute $715 billion in gross domestic product. (
CA Immigrant Policy Center 2016
)
Wildfire Protection and Prevention
This year during Special Session, Assembly Democrats already approved into law a $2.5 billion package to provide immediate aid for L.A. wildfire recovery. The legislation, which passed with bipartisan support, is a first step to deliver billions in state funding for wildfire response and recovery that will accelerate cleanup of impacted neighborhoods, and fast-track the rebuilding of schools and homes.
Assembly Democrats have made historic investments in wildfire protection and prevention in recent years including:
Between 2014 and 2024, the number of positions dedicated to fire protection increased from 5,756 to 10,275 at CalFire, an approximately 80% increase.
The LAO estimates that CalFire’s total base wildfire protection budget has nearly tripled over the past 10 years (from $1.1 billion in 2014-15 to $3 billion in 2023-24).
The 24-25 budget included $199 million and 338 new positions to CalFire to begin implementing a shift to a 66 hour workweek. This will eventually rise to $770 million on an ongoing basis and 2,457 new permanent positions by 2028-29. These positions are dedicated to fire protection across the state.
In the historic 2021 and 2022 climate packages, the Legislature invested more than $2.8 billion in Wildfire and Forest Resilience, including fire prevention efforts, across multiple budget years. The 24-25 budget maintained 93% of that funding or $2.6 billion.
The 24-25 budget also avoided cuts and approved several fund shifts from the General Fund to the Greenhouse Gas Reduction Fund (GGRF) for various wildfire resilience programs. These include:
$20 million for the prescribed fire liability pilot program
$82 million for Fire prevention grants
$26 million for Unit Fire prevention projects
$10 million for Tribal Wildfire and Forest Resilience
The 24-25 budget maintains $200 million through 2028 for prevention programs focused on prescribed burns, fuels reductions, fuel breaks.
###