SACRAMENTO, CA
—On Monday at the state Capitol, Assembly Speaker Robert Rivas (D–Salinas) stood with more than 30 Democratic lawmakers from across California to denounce the Trump administration’s reckless immigration raids in Los Angeles and unconstitutional actions inciting fear among communities.
“For the second time in five years, we are witnessing Donald Trump use the power of government to incite violence and chaos,”
Speaker Rivas said.
“The first was January 6. The second is happening right now as we speak on the streets of Los Angeles.”
The Speaker and his fellow lawmakers blasted Trump’s decision to activate the California National Guard without Governor Gavin Newsom’s request, calling it a deliberate provocation intended to distract from Trump’s economic failures.
“This is not about law and order,”
Speaker Rivas said.
“If it were, he would listen to our local law enforcement. He would be listening to California residents. But instead, he wants chaos. He wants disruption. He’s stoking unrest. He’s provoking fear. And, he will do everything in his power to get it.”
Rivas delivered a direct message to California’s immigrant communities, invoking his personal story.
“Like many of my colleagues, I’m the proud son of Mexican immigrants. I am a first-generation Californian. To every family feeling fear right now: You are not alone. We will defend your rights. You are California. And, you make California thrive.”
The Speaker also called out the politically motivated indictment of SEIU labor leader David Huerta and forcefully responded to Trump’s threat to arrest Governor Newsom.
“If Donald Trump wants to jail our governor for defending our Constitution, then he’ll have to arrest me, too,”
Rivas said.
“And I will proudly stand with Governor Newsom in that jail cell.”
The Speaker continued:
“I want to speak directly to our immigrant communities in Los Angeles and across California: Many of you are feeling fear and worry at this moment. I want you to know that your elected officials stand with you. We will defend your rights. You are essential to our communities. And, you are not alone.”
President of the Los Angeles Assembly Delegation, Assemblymember Tina McKinnor (D-Inglewood), made it clear that Trump’s actions are to be condemned.
"On behalf of the LA County Legislative Delegation and the 10 million people that call LA County home, we have a simple message for the current President of the United States: STOP.
“Mr. President, stop violating the constitutional rights of the people of LA County. Mr. President, stop violating the due process rights of the people of LA County. Mr. President, stop provoking fear and violence in LA County. Mr. President, stand down the use of any federalized National Guard troops in LA County. Mr. President, stand down the deployment of any US military troops in LA County.
“Mr. President, turn down the temperature. LA County is not your political punching bag. We are strong people - we are good people and we will not be bullied by you or anyone in your Administration that seeks to divide or intimidate us.”
The Los Angeles Assembly Delegation and Speaker Robert Rivas pledged continued action to defend Californians from federal overreach and hostile threats from the Trump administration.
Statements from Los Angeles Assembly Delegation
“In the city of Paramount, I saw it firsthand. Flash-bangs. Tear gas. Rubber bullets. A community that works hard, pays taxes, and raises families was treated like a threat. Let me say this loud and clear: No en mi distrito. Not in my district. Trump won’t solve this situation because he created it. It’s up to us to lead with calm, with courage, and with community. We’re standing with our immigrant neighbors. We’re rejecting political terror. And we’re building a future rooted in justice, not fear.”
– Assemblymember Jose Luis Solache (D-Lynwood)
“Donald Trump is not preserving order — he’s manufacturing chaos to justify an authoritarian power grab. This isn’t about peace or safety. It’s about control. But let me be crystal clear: California will not be intimidated. I’m fed up with his reckless raids, his fascist rhetoric, and his blatant disregard for the Constitution. We will not allow him to turn our streets into his political stage or use our communities as pawns in his dangerous game. Our people are not props — they are families, workers, dreamers, and fighters. If he attempts to cross the line into martial law or misuse the National Guard, we’ll meet him with resistance at every level — legal, political, and moral. We’re not trading our democracy for his delusions of power. Not today. Not ever.”
– Assemblymember Mark Gonzalez (D-Los Angeles), Assembly Majority Whip
“This is a clear case of federal overreach and an abuse of power by the Trump administration. These actions threaten the very communities that fuel our economy and make America great. As an immigrant myself, I know what it feels like to be afraid, and we will not be silenced. As Californians, we will continue to fight for the dignity and safety of immigrants, workers, students, and families.”
– Assemblymember Juan Carrillo (D-Palmdale), Vice-Chair of the California Latino Legislative Caucus
“President Trump is abusing his power to divide us and target immigrant families who help make California strong. We cannot take the bait. Now more than ever, we must stand united, protect our communities, and uphold our right to peaceful protest.”
– Assemblymember Sharon Quirk-Silva (D-Fullerton)
“The federal government sent the National Guard to Los Angeles without the request of our Governor, intentionally generating chaos and conflict by sending troops against their own people. Our federal government should stop treating the people of California as opponents and withdraw the National Guard immediately.”
– Assemblymember Blanca Pacheco (D-Downey)
“President Trump isn’t responding to unrest—he’s inciting it. This Administration is looking for any excuse to escalate, to justify more troops, more chaos, and more fear. Let me be clear: this is not normal, and it is not right. This is not who we are as a country—and it is certainly not who we are as Californians. We want to keep families together, not tear them apart. I will continue fighting to protect the safety and security of the children, families, and communities now under threat.”
– Assemblymember Rick Chavez Zbur (D-Hollywood)
“The federal government is targeting immigrants in ways that are not only cruel- they’re unconstitutional. ICE’s aggressive tactics are tearing families apart, sowing fear in our neighborhoods, and undermining the very fabric of our community. The Trump Administration has chosen to weaponize immigration enforcement, not to enhance public safety, but to intimidate and divide. This is not just reckless; it’s a betrayal of American values and the constitutional rights they’ve all sworn an oath to protect and defend. We stand united with Los Angeles and all Californians against this reckless authoritarian overreach.”
–Assemblymember Nick Schultz (D-Burbank), Chair of the Assembly Committee on Public Safety.
###
For television news outlets who could not attend today’s press conference, the following link is a media feed with soundbites and b-roll on Speaker Robert Rivas’ remarks:
Speaker LA Legislative Leaders Demand End to ICE Raids on Vimeo
(Speaker Rivas)
LA Legislative Leaders End to ICE Raids Media Feed on Vimeo
(Full Press Conference)
For radio news outlets who could not attend today’s press conference, the following links are soundbites of Speaker Rivas and LA County Legislative Delegation:
Opening remarks from Assemblymember Tina McKinnor, Chair of the Los Angeles Legislative Delegation, at today’s news conference. (3:42)
Remarks from California Assembly Speaker Robert Rivas at today’s news conference. (4:17)
Full audio of the press conference can be found here:
Today’s legislative news conference regarding the deployment of National Guard troops in Los Angeles. Includes remarks from (in order of appearance) Assemblymember Tina McKinnor, Assembly Speaker Robert Rivas, State Senators Lola Smallwood-Cuevas and Aisha Wahab, Assemblymembers Mark Gonzalez, Jose Luis Solache, Lisa Calderon, Blanca Pacheco, Sharon Quirk-Silva, Juan Carrillo, Pilar Schiavo, Rick Zbur, Ash Kalra and Q&A with reporters.  (1:10:51)
For additional information, please contact:
Speaker Robert Rivas's Press Secretary,
Cynthia.Moreno@asm.ca.gov
###
Speaker of the Assembly Robert Rivas represents California’s 29th Assembly District, which includes all of San Benito County and portions of Monterey, Santa Cruz, and Santa Clara Counties. For a full biography of Speaker Rivas, click
here