SACRAMENTO –
Today, Assemblymember Mia Bonta (D – Oakland) introduced a first-of-its-kind piece of legislation that would expand the prohibition on out-of-pocket costs, including copayments, coinsurance, and deductibles to all covered health care services provided to children under 21. In 2018, the average Golden State family
spent over $3,000 out-of-pocket
on their healthcare.
“Cost should not prevent California’s youth from being able to access the healthcare they need,”
said Assemblymember Mia Bonta.
“AB 298 would prohibit out-of-pocket health costs for youth in the state ensuring California families have peace of mind when seeking care for their child. No parent should be forced to choose between a co-pay for their son’s doctor visit and groceries for the next week. Not only will this create healthy children, but those healthy children will turn into healthy adults who will contribute to our economy, have smaller strains on our health system, and lead fulfilling lives.”
As Chair of the Assembly Health Committee, Assemblymember Bonta has been committed to creating the healthiest possible California, continuing this effort with her newest bill. AB 298 will encourage families to not delay needed care, improving screening, diagnosis, and early intervention for California’s youth – setting the state up for a healthy and fiscally sustainable future.
"Private insurance cost-sharing can add up for working families. My daughter was healthy until age 15, when she woke up one morning and could not walk. Suddenly, our family was facing unexpected and astronomical copay as she undertook tests, specialty care, medical equipment, multiple surgeries, and physical and occupational therapies to treat her condition. It was very tight for our middle-class, working family. California families must be relieved from the potential of financial devastation as healthcare costs continue to increase,"
said Janis Connallon, Director of Family Voices of CA.
Early diagnosis and treatment is crucial for mitigating adverse health outcomes and is a valuable step to ensure children become healthy and productive adults. Additionally, out-of-pocket costs have been found to reduce access to care, with
one study finding
that 30% of families on plans with high out-of-pocket costs were more likely to delay seeking health care for their children.
“It is important that children and young adults seek necessary medical care without the fear or burden of high out-of-pocket costs,”
said Erin Kelly, Executive Director of Children's Specialty Care Coalition.
“This is particularly true of children and youth with medical complexity, where delaying needed care due to financial concerns can easily lead to a worsening of their condition.”
“I’m proud to be introducing this landmark bill, which will save California families money and ensure that we invest in a healthy future. I appreciate the support this bill has already received from our local community and look forward to continuing to advance these priorities with my colleagues in the legislature,”
stated Assemblymember Bonta.
AB 298 is the sixth bill introduced by Assemblymember Mia Bonta in this legislative cycle.
###
Assemblymember Mia Bonta
represents California’s 18
th
Assembly District encompassing the East Bay including Oakland, Alameda, and Emeryville. She also chairs the Assembly Health Committee.