Sacramento, CA –
In a major win for victims of abuse and violence, Assemblymember Rhodesia Ransom (D-Tracy) has secured $10 million in the 2025-2026 State Budget to expand Family Justice Centers- trusted, one-stop hubs that offer trauma-informed support to survivors and their families.
As California faces a disturbing rise in domestic violence, sexual assault, child abuse, elder abuse, and human trafficking victims, demand for services through Family Justice Centers has surged by as much as 40% statewide. These centers currently serve over 70,000 survivors each year, and are often the only safe, accessible place for individuals to receive legal support, counseling, housing assistance, and crisis care.
“I am relieved to see the budget committee and Speaker Rivas honor my hard-fought requests to restore funding to California’s Family Justice Centers,” said
Assemblymember Rhodesia Ransom.
“When the May Revise was released, there were zero dollars allocated for these critical services. I want to sincerely thank every one of my colleagues who joined me in advocating for this investment—this was truly a joint effort, and a win for survivors across the state.”
These funds will allow centers to expand trauma-reduction programs for children and youth, provide greater access to mental health care and personalized safety planning, and strengthen housing and legal navigation services. The funding will also support workforce development, job training and enhance efforts to prevent gun violence through court coordination and community education.
“In a difficult budget year, Assemblymember Ransom emerged as a powerful advocate for Family Justice Centers across California,” said
Alexis Wilbur, Program Coordinator at the San Joaquin County Family Justice Center
. “Her leadership will have a direct impact here in San Joaquin County, where this investment will help us meet growing demand and continue providing compassionate, wraparound services to survivors of domestic violence, human trafficking, sexual assault, and more—regardless of whether they choose to engage with law enforcement. We are incredibly grateful for her commitment to safety, dignity, and justice for all.”
Earlier this year, Assemblymember Ransom was honored as Legislator of the Year by the California Family Justice Center Network in recognition of her advocacy to champion this budget request.
“This $10 million investment is a lifeline for survivors,” said
Susun Kim, Executive Team Leader of the California Family Justice Network
. “It sends a clear message: California stands with those impacted by domestic and interpersonal violence and recognizes the power of a collaborative, trauma-informed response. We are deeply grateful to our state leaders for making safety and healing a priority.”
The allocation has been approved by both the California State Assembly and Senate and now awaits the Governor’s expected signature to be finalized.
A press conference in Stockton, CA is expected to be held next week to celebrate this investment and highlight what it means for local survivors and service providers in San Joaquin County.
####