AB 1138, authored by Assemblymember Rick Chavez Zbur, Assemblymember Isaac Bryan and Assemblymember Sharon Quirk-Silva, along with companion bill SB 630, authored by Senator Ben Allen, will strengthen and modernize the California Film & Television Tax Credit, keeping productions and jobs in California.
SACRAMENTO, CA
– Legislation to strengthen California's film and television industry cleared a major hurdle this week, as both houses of the Legislature passed the
California Film & Television Jobs Act
with overwhelming bipartisan support.
AB 1138
passed the Assembly with 71 "Aye" votes and only one "No" vote out of 79 members, while
SB 630
passed the Senate with 34 "Aye" votes and just one "No" vote out of 40 members.
AB 1138
, along with companion bill
SB 630
, is authored by
Assemblymember Rick Chavez Zbur (D-Hollywood) and State Senator Ben Allen (D-Santa Monica)
, along with joint authors
Assemblymember Isaac Bryan (D-Los Angeles) and Assemblymember Sharon Quirk-Silva (D-Fullerton)
, and
Senator Caroline Menjivar (D-San Fernando Valley), Senator Sasha Renee Perez (D-Pasadena)
and
Senator Henry Stern (D-Los Angeles).
These bills aim to retain and expand entertainment industry jobs, boost small businesses that support production, and reinforce California's status as the global leader in creativity and innovation.
The legislation directly addresses the growing threat of runaway production, which has already resulted in significant job losses and economic harm across California. AB 1138 and SB 630 aim to reverse this trend by modernizing California's tax credit program, making it more competitive with other states and countries, while supporting small businesses and sustaining thousands of union jobs in the entertainment industry.
"I'm deeply grateful for the overwhelming support my colleagues have shown for the California Film & TV Jobs Act," said
Assemblymember Rick Chavez Zbur.
"At a time when our film and television workforce is facing depression-era levels of unemployment, AB 1138 and SB 630 are about jobs—good union jobs, jobs for small businesses, and jobs for the next generation of Californians entering apprenticeship programs. I'm especially proud to be working with a strong coalition of legislators who are laser-focused on making sure California remains competitive, brings production back home, and uplifts the workers and communities who make this iconic industry thrive."
"These bills, at their core, are focused on incentivizing job creation for a critical industry that has been at the heart of the California dream," said
Senator Ben Allen
. "This industry is in danger, as so many other jurisdictions have put increasingly generous incentives forward to lure productions. We have crafted a response that is meaningful and focused on job retention and growth. I'm grateful for the bipartisan support from my legislative colleagues for these bills that will help to revitalize our entertainment industry."
AB 1138 and SB 630 now head to their second houses, where they will be referred to policy committees in the coming weeks.
Assemblymember Rick Chavez Zbur serves as the Democratic Caucus Chair for the California State Assembly and represents the 51st Assembly District, which includes Universal City, Hollywood, Hancock Park, West Hollywood, Beverly Hills, Westwood, West Los Angeles, Santa Monica, and other portions of Los Angeles.
Ben Allen represents the 24th State Senate District, which consists of the Westside, Hollywood, coastal South Bay, and Santa Monica Mountains communities of Los Angeles County.
MEDIA CONTACTS:
Vienna Montague (Zbur) |
vienna.montague@asm.ca.gov
Ben Cheever (Allen) |
ben.cheever@sen.ca.gov