South Central Los Angeles, CA —
In a historic and community-centered event, Assemblymember Sade Elhawary (D-South Los Angeles) was sworn into office on March 9, 2025, outside her district office at the Wallis Annenberg Building in Expo Park. The event brought together neighbors, advocates, and local leaders, making it a vibrant celebration of South Central’s culture, resilience, and unity.
From cultural performances by the USC Majorettes, Calle A Calle, and the Westside Dominators Drill Team to inspiring speeches by local leaders, the event reflected Elhawary’s deep ties to the district. Los Angeles Mayor Karen Bass, a longtime mentor, officiated the oath, affirming the significance of this moment.
Beyond the celebration, the event also served as a hub for vital resources. Elhawary’s Sacramento staff hosted an “Ask Me Anything” table about our legislative package, while organizations like the Immigrant Defenders Law Center, LA Black Worker Center, and Inspire Together provided free immigration assistance, workplace rights education, and youth support services. Ensuring that her constituents have access to information and services is a priority for Elhawary, who remains focused on uplifting the people she represents.
Since taking office, Elhawary has
introduced several bills
, largely focusing on her two major pillars: restorative justice, and wellness equity. She has also joined Assembly leadership to support emergency wildfire response efforts and expedite recovery. Further, she remains on the frontlines to protect immigrant families across California.
For Elhawary, this swearing-in ceremony was not just about taking office—it was about celebrating the people who made it possible and ensuring they remain involved every step of the way. She invites all community members to engage with her office, share their concerns, and work together to build a stronger future for South Los Angeles and all of District 57.
######
Assemblymember Sade Elhawary represents the 57th Assembly District, including Historic South Central, South Los Angeles, Downtown Los Angeles, Exposition Park, Florence-Firestone, Watts, and Skid Row. Website of Assemblymember Sade Elhawary:
https://a57.asmdc.org/
CONTACT:
Rene.Romero@asm.ca.gov
(for District)
Grace.Dikho@asm.ca.gov
(for Capitol)