SACRAMENTO
– Today, Assemblymember Ash Kalra (D-San José) presented ACR 71, to designate the portion of State Route 101 in the County of Santa Clara from Story Road to the junction with State Highway Route 280 and State Highway Route 680 as the Little Saigon Freeway. ACR 71 was approved by the Assembly with bipartisan support and 66 coauthors.
“As the proud representative of the largest Vietnamese community in any single city outside of Vietnam, I am honored to author ACR 71. By recognizing Little Saigon, we not only celebrate its vibrant culture, but the contributions of Vietnamese Americans and their entrepreneurial spirit and resilience. This freeway naming will serve as a reminder of the journeys undertaken by so many in pursuit of freedom and prosperity, and it will stand as a beacon of hope and inspiration for future generations,” said
Assemblymember Kalra.
Little Saigon is a vibrant hub for tourists and refugees from across the globe, offering a diverse array of services and businesses, such as restaurants, supermarkets, shopping malls, banks, and jewelry stores serving the Vietnamese American community as well as local residents of San José.
“As the daughter of Vietnamese refugees, I’m proud to coauthor ACR 71 to designate a stretch of Highway 101 in San Jose as the Little Saigon Freeway. Thank you Assemblymember Kalra, for this resolution that honors the resilience, contributions, and vibrant culture of the Vietnamese American community in the South Bay. It’s more than a sign on the road, it’s a powerful symbol of identity, belonging, and our shared history in California,” said
Assemblymember Stephanie Nguyen
(D-Elk Grove).
“I am thrilled that our Vietnamese communities in Orange County and San Jose will now be connected in such a meaningful way. ACR 71 is more than a sign, it’s a recognition that while Vietnamese refugees fled communism in their homeland, we found a new home in America and became a part of America’s rich cultural tapestry. This freeway dedication affirms the Vietnamese experience as an important part of California’s story,” said
Assemblymember Tri Ta
(R-Westminster).
Assemblymember Patrick Ahrens
(D-Silicon Valley) said, “I am proud to coauthor this legislation designating Little Saigon Freeway in Santa Clara County along State Route 101, recognizing the significant cultural and societal contributions the Vietnamese American community has made to our communities and throughout California.”
###
Assemblymember Ash Kalra
represents California’s 25th Assembly District, which encompasses the majority of San José, including downtown and open space areas in southeast Santa Clara County. He was first elected in 2016, becoming the first Indian American to serve in the California Legislature in state history, and was re-elected to his fifth term in 2024. Assemblymember Kalra is the Chair of the Committee on Judiciary and also serves as a member on the Housing & Community Development, Labor & Employment, Natural Resources, and Utilities & Energy committees.