Sacramento
- On Monday, California Speaker Robert Rivas delivered the following remarks as Assembly Democrats passed legislation to protect California taxpayers and the state’s economy from Republican chaos in Washington, D.C.:
***
We are gathered here today – in a chamber whose centerpiece is the portrait of Abraham Lincoln above the dais. He kept our republic together at a time in our history when we were most divided, and yet, he saw the humanity in every person.
I know that all 79 of us here represent 40 million Californians. We were inspired to public service because we want to make life better for people and hopefully leave a legacy.
This year, our focus is on cost of living, housing and other issues deserving urgency.
As I said in December, our constituents don’t feel the state of California is working for them, and their primary concern is the cost of living here at home.
We all know that because they’re telling us that repeatedly. So our task is urgent and it’s clear: To make life more affordable for every resident.
Of course, we will face challenges that we don’t know are coming—like the horrific fires in Los Angeles. Unfortunately, we know that more challenges will come.
And these are times when we must come together to find consensus. Not rush to social media, to point fingers, or to dis-inform.
Our job, above all else, is to protect our residents whether the threat is wildfires, other natural disasters or threats to their civil liberties and freedoms.
Let me be blunt – right now, Californians are being threatened by an out-of-control administration in Washington—that doesn’t care about the Constitution... and thinks there are no limits to its power.
Increasingly, our own residents are being threatened by actions taken by the Trump administration, and it is our duty to rise to the moment.
We must ensure that our residents receive the federal services and benefits that they have contributed to and that they deserve.
Given the many executive orders that have been issued over the past two weeks I can say with clarity that we do not trust President Donald Trump.
Consider the words and actions coming from our President: He has referred to undocumented immigrants as animals.
He directed a draconian federal freeze on critical resources—for school lunches, lifesaving medicine, veterans benefits, resources for the LGBT community—the list goes on and on.
This decision caused chaos around the country and resulted in dozens of lawsuits filed on behalf of multiple states who moved swiftly to defend vulnerable residents.
He said the horrible disaster at Reagan International Airport last week was because of DEI—Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion efforts. Can you imagine? And he said this, with no evidence in the first hours when families are just learning about lost loved ones.
Then, we learned that just the prior week, President Trump had fired the entire Aviation Security Advisory Committee.
President Trump has given the world's richest man more than a seat at the table—he gave him the keys to the White House AND our federal payment system.
Together they are indiscriminately cutting funds—from public safety and reproductive health care to HIV and AIDS prevention. They’re intent on enacting retribution under the guise of austerity.
And as we all know, President Trump pardoned violent criminals who viciously attacked US Capitol police officers with metal pipes, baseball bats, and flag poles, leading to injuries, deaths, and suicides.
How can we trust a President who calls for law and order – yet pardons his own supporters when they attack law enforcement?
Now, this President has given ICE agents the authority to enter schools, churches and hospitals all for showy raids that make the evening news.
They’re sweeping up many immigrants with no criminal history at all, separated from their families and subject to deportation without due process. These are the facts.
Here in California, there are 1.8 million undocumented people who pay about $8.5 billion in state and local taxes every year.
They raise families and contribute to their communities. These law-abiding immigrants are Californians. They are not criminals.
Now, there has been a long-standing policy in our country that undocumented residents who
do
commit serious crimes must be deported.
This happened under President Biden, it happened under President Obama. It is not new.
What’s new is this strategy of fear and chaos. The denial of due process. The plans for mass deportation. On an unprecedented scale.
They want to end asylum and
change the Constitution
to remove birthright citizenship.
Their radical plans threaten our residents.
So we will do what is necessary to defend our residents—We must defend them And not just from this immediate threat, but from all of the chaos and abuse of power that we’re going to see coming from Washington D.C. over the next four years.
I want to speak directly to the millions of immigrants who call California home.
Immigrants who have worked hard to build a better life for themselves and their families – You are a vital part of our communities. You are loved. You are respected. You belong here.
To my fellow colleagues – I know that we are up to the challenge. It is an honor to work with all of you – there is so much talent and knowledge in this room.
Of course there will be differences of opinion, but I know all of us want to make life better for Californians.
I hope we can all take inspiration from the portrait of Abraham Lincoln.
That’s why it’s here.
During difficult times, he kept his head.
He knew what he believed in. He stayed true to his values, but he never lost sight of the humanity of all Americans.
Chaos has no place here. Fear and hatred have no place here. We will be professional, collaborative, and focused.
We will not be distracted from our mission to protect our residents, our economy, and to deliver the best possible public services to 40 million Californians.
Thank you very much.
###