FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
February 25, 2025
Contact: Alex Niles, (916) 319-2431,
alex.niles@asm.ca.gov
Assemblywoman Krell Introduces the Survivor Support and Demand Reduction Act
SACRAMENTO – In an effort to better protect and support survivors of sex trafficking while cracking down on the demand that fuels victimization, Assemblywoman Maggy Krell (D-Sacramento) has introduced
AB 379
, which would establish a fund for community-based organizations supporting victims of sex trafficking, make it a crime to loiter with the intent to purchase sex, and ensure that the crime of purchasing a minor for sex applies in any case where the victim is under 18.
“If enacted, this law will fund community-based organizations helping victims escape sex trafficking while cracking down on those who are keeping the industry going. As Deputy Attorney General I spent years sending sex traffickers to prison, but there were never enough resources to help the victims, and in some cases, the victims were criminalized instead of those attempting to purchase sex acts with them. This law will change that,” said
Assemblywoman Maggy Krell (D-Sacramento)
.
Sex trafficking remains a scourge in communities across California. On streets known as “blades” or “tracks,” in poor urban neighborhoods, mostly women and teens are bought by men who pull up in cars and offer money in exchange for degrading sex acts. Often, the money goes to sex traffickers who are watching and monitoring the individuals for sale on the blade. In 2022, California decriminalized loitering for prostitution, making it more difficult for law enforcement to intervene and investigate sex trafficking cases. In turn, the sex trafficking industry has openly flourished.  Neighborhoods and small businesses have been crushed by “blade activity”, while victims have experienced increased levels of violence. Meanwhile, community based organizations dedicated to supporting victims are over worked and under resourced.
“Imagine a crowded In n’ Out drive-through; for every person taking the orders, 10-15 cars are waiting to be served,” said
Sawan Vaden
, executive director of Community Against Sexual Harm (CASH), a community-based organization that provides services to people who have been sexually exploited, including direct street outreach. “That’s the amount of demand that is on our streets in Sacramento; for every victim you see, there are at least fifteen men in cars lined up to buy sex, sitting there with total impunity.”
Sex trafficking disproportionately
impacts girls and women
of color from impoverished neighborhoods,
LGBTQ youth
, and
children from the foster care system
. Lacking a stable home environment and support system increases vulnerability.
“Early childhood sexual abuse and rape pushed me into exploitation. I nearly lost my life at the hands of sex buyers on multiple occasions. Even as an adult, I was still trapped in the system of prostitution— it never felt consensual. This bill doesn’t just provide funding for victim support—it ensures that there are stronger legal tools to target the predators who keep this violent industry thriving by buying women and girls like me,” said
Marjorie Saylor
, a survivor leader and advocate who serves as the San Diego District Attorney’s Care Coordinator & Director of Human Trafficking Services and Awareness.
Key Provisions of AB 379:
·
Funding Survivor Support
: Establishes the Survivor Support Fund, directing fines collected from offenders to community-based organizations that provide direct services and outreach to sex trafficking victims.
·
Cracking Down on Demand for Commercial Sex:
The bill makes loitering with the intent to purchase commercial sex a misdemeanor, punishable by a $1,000 fine in addition to any other penalties.
·
Protecting Minors:
Ensures that the crime of purchasing a minor for sex applies in any case where the victim is under the age of 18.
·
Connecting to Resources:
Those charged with prostitution under current law for receiving something of value in exchange for a sex act, must be offered diversion for first and second time offenses, rather than criminal penalties.
For more information, read the report “
Estimating Sex Trafficking in Sacramento County
” and the
AB 379 factsheet
.
What other supporters are saying:
Senator Shannon Grove,
(R-Bakersfield), Principal Co-Author of AB 379 and Author of SB 14 and SB 1414: “As a former Prosecutor who handled major sex trafficking cases, Assemblywoman Krell is uniquely qualified to lead on human trafficking legislation. I am honored to partner with her to ensure all children are equally protected from sexual exploitation and to provide vital support to survivors of this horrific crime. Together, we are committed to strengthening protections for the most vulnerable among us.”
Vanessa Russell,
Executive Director of Love Never Fails, an Oakland-based community organization providing support to survivors of trafficking, including direct outreach: “As human trafficking has grown in the beautiful city of Oakland, it’s brought with it a rising level of violence concentrated along hotspots like International Boulevard. Trafficking, and the violence that comes with it, harms every part of the community – residents, businesses, overstretched community organizations, and the victims themselves. Meanwhile, local law enforcement is hamstrung to stop this exploitation without laws in place to criminalize loitering the intent to purchase commercial sex.”
Ashlie Bryant
, CEO, 3Strands Global Foundation, a national organization based in Sacramento, focusing on human trafficking prevention, education and reintegration for survivors: “At 3Strands Global Foundation, we believe in a future where every individual is free from the threat of human trafficking and exploitation. AB 379 is a critical step forward in protecting vulnerable communities, strengthening prevention efforts, and ensuring survivors receive the support they deserve. Importantly, this legislation also addresses the demand that fuels trafficking, holding perpetrators accountable and reducing exploitation at its root. We stand in full support of AB 379 and urge its passage to create a safer California for all.”
Lieutenant Governor Eleni Kounalakis:
“Human trafficking is a crisis that demands urgent action. I’ve seen firsthand the devastating impact of this crime. I am proud to cosponsor AB 379, and I am grateful for Assemblywoman Maggy Krell’s work in championing this critical bill. AB 379 will help strengthen enforcement, prevention, and efforts to reduce demand—helping keep our communities safer.”
Sacramento County Sheriff Jim Cooper:
“As Sheriff, I strongly support Assembly Bill 379, which strengthens penalties for prostitution-related offenses, targeting sex buyers and especially those who exploit minors through human trafficking. Human trafficking is a horrific crime that destroys lives and preys on the most vulnerable members of our communities through coercion, violence, and fear. Demand drives this criminal industry, and by holding buyers and traffickers accountable with tougher consequences, we can take meaningful steps to dismantle these operations and protect victims. Our children and communities deserve to be safe. I urge lawmakers to pass this bill and take a firm stand against human trafficking in our state.”
Sacramento County District Attorney Thien Ho:
“The Sacramento County DA’s Office created a regional task force to combat human trafficking. I am proud to cosponsor this piece of legislation with Assemblywoman Krell because it would help advance that cause. This bill will also give law enforcement more tools that they desperately need to protect victims and hold traffickers accountable.”
San Diego County District Attorney Summer Stephan:
“It’s time that our laws clearly declare that children and adults are not for sale, provide law enforcement with the tools to protect victims from criminal buyers and traffickers, and increase resources needed to help victims recover from trauma. I’m proud to co-sponsor Assembly Bill 379 and stand alongside Assemblywoman Krell to strengthen human trafficking laws. This important bill closes a loophole that allowed teen children to be trafficked and bought for sex like a slice of pizza with little consequence. It also provides the tools for law enforcement to protect victims by enforcing loitering for prostitution laws against exploitative buyers who fuel human trafficking and provides increased resources for much needed services and shelter for victims of human trafficking. Only by bolstering human trafficking laws can we protect the most vulnerable and stop allowing lives to be destroyed.”
Sponsors:
·
Community Against Sexual Harm (CASH)
·
Love Never Fails
·
3Strands Global Foundation
·
California Lieutenant Governor Eleni Kounalakis
·
Sacramento County Sheriff Jim Cooper
·
San Diego County District Attorney Summer Stephan
·
Sacramento County District Attorney Thien Ho
###
About Assemblywoman Maggy Krell
: Assemblywoman Maggy Krell represents the 6th Assembly District, which includes the communities of Sacramento, Arden-Arcade, Antelope, Carmichael, Elverta, La Riviera and Rio Linda. Earlier this year, Assemblywoman Krell hosted a human trafficking policy roundtable discussion with survivor leaders at the state Capitol. Krell also joined local law enforcement and the California Department of Justice in the announcement of the Sacramento Regional Human Trafficking Task Force, a critical step in addressing sex trafficking in the Sacramento region. Prior to being elected to the Assembly, Krell led the California Department of Justice’s anti-trafficking efforts and prosecuted major sex trafficking cases. She received a career achievement award from the National Center for Missing & Exploited Children for her work. Learn more about Assemblywoman Krell at
https://a06.asmdc.org/
.