SACRAMENTO, CA
– Assemblymember Catherine Stefani (D-San Francisco) is leading the charge on clean energy with AB 1417, a bold bill to ensure offshore wind development benefits the communities most impacted. By creating a statewide fund at the California Energy Commission, the bill empowers local communities and tribes to actively shape California’s clean energy future—driving environmental justice, economic opportunity, and a more equitable transition to renewable power.
“California is leading the charge on clean energy, but we must ensure offshore wind development is done responsibly and equitably.”
said Assemblymember Stefani.
“By creating a dedicated funding account, we empower local communities, nonprofits, and tribes to have a seat at the table—maximizing benefits while minimizing harm. This is about smart, sustainable growth that protects our coast and our communities."
In 2024, the California Energy Commission laid out an ambitious roadmap for offshore wind, targeting 2- 5 gigawatts (GW) by 2030 and 25 GW by 2045. But reaching these milestones requires more than just innovation—it demands real partnership with local communities and tribes. Too often, frontline communities face steep barriers to participation, from financial constraints to limited access to key decision-making spaces. Without the resources to engage, they risk being left out of a transition that directly impacts them. AB 1417 ensures these communities have the funding and support they need to play a central role in shaping California’s clean energy future.
“With offshore wind projects being planned off the state’s North and Central Coasts, it’s crucial to ensure host communities can shape and benefit from them.”
Said Eddie Ahn, Executive Director of Brightline Defense, sponsor of the bill.
“With Assemblymember Stefani establishing herself as one of California's clean energy leaders, our coalition of community-based and environmental partners look forward to creating the process where local jobs and benefits for offshore wind can be realized.”
AB 1417 would establish the Offshore Wind Community Capacity Building Fund Grant Account. Specifically, the bill would also:
Mandate offshore wind developers to contribute financial assistance to the fund or provide direct support to eligible entities.
Permit both public and private funding sources to make deposits as they become available.
Designate the California Energy Commission, leveraging its expertise in offshore wind and community engagement, to administer the fund under its Voluntary Offshore Wind and Coastal Resources Protection Program.
Enhance transparency by requiring offshore wind developers to disclose key details regarding their contributions.
Require the California Energy Commission to publish a publicly accessible report detailing all contributions and allocations.
The bill will be heard in Assembly policy committees during the spring.
###