Cat declawing is recognized internationally as cruel and unnecessary. Dozens of countries have already banned the harmful surgical procedure. A growing number of U.S. states and cities are moving to end this practice as well. Now, Assemblymember Alex Lee’s bill, AB 867, is one step closer to prohibiting cat declawing in California, affirming the state’s commitment to protecting cats’ welfare. The bill passed the Senate Business, Professions and Economic Development Committee on June 23, 2025, and is headed to the Senate Floor.
“Cat declawing is a barbaric and disfiguring surgery,” said Assemblymember Lee. “This unethical surgical procedure leads to lifelong pain and disability, and it’s past time that we ban cat declawing in California. AB 867 shows the nation and world that California does not endorse surgical mutilation performed electively on healthy cats for human convenience.”
Declawing involves the amputation of the first knuckle of each cat’s toes —
a surgical procedure that can lead to debilitating health effects. Surgical complications include hemorrhage, infection, pain, and anesthetic complications. Removing cats’ claws also
increases the likelihood of behaviors
like biting, aggression, and litter box avoidance. Overgrooming, chronic back pain,
residual bone fragments
and mobility issues
are among other long-term effects of declawing
.
Image
(Photo courtesy of the
Montreal SPCA
)
AB 867 prohibits the declawing of a cat unless a veterinarian performs the procedure for a medically necessary purpose that benefits the cat’s health. Scratching is a natural cat behavior, and non-surgical alternatives are available to address inappropriate behaviors such as nail trimming, soft claw caps, and behavioral training. While some believe that cat declawing reduces health risks for immunocompromised cat owners,
experts instead emphasize the importance
of proper hygiene and parasite control.
Cat declawing is already outlawed in many places. In 2003, the city of West Hollywood
passed the nation’s first legislation
to ban cat declawing, with seven other California cities following suit. New York
then became the first state in the U.S. to enact the ban on this inhumane practice in 2019
. Maryland, Washington, D.C., and Massachusetts have also passed bans. Globally, dozens of countries including Australia, New Zealand, the U.K. and Switzerland have all banned cat declawing.
See Assemblymember Lee’s
social media video
to learn more about his cats, Udon and Soba, and his inspiration for introducing AB 867.