New bill will ensure that uniform curriculum advances multicultural respect and is free from harmful biases
SACRAMENTO, CA –
Today, in response to deep concerns over many California high schools' implementation of the ethnic studies curriculum, State Assemblymembers
Rick Chavez Zbur (D-Hollywood)
and
Dawn Addis (D-Morro Bay)
and State Senator Josh Becker (D-Menlo Park) have introduced
Assembly Bill 1468
(AB 1468), which will standardize teaching the subject across the state while fostering safe and supportive school climates and ensuring historical accuracy. The bill will give educators a clear, structured roadmap for implementation and protect students from inaccurate or biased information being taught in their classrooms. This much-needed action for students, teachers, administrators, and parents will safeguard the promise of ethnic studies and further mutual understanding and tolerance.
AB 1468, which has 31 co-authors, requires the California State Board of Education to develop and adopt uniform content standards, a curriculum framework, and instructional materials for high school ethnic studies instruction with guidance from an advisory committee appointed by the Governor. This advisory committee will be composed of academic experts in the disciplines of African American, Latino/ChicanX, Asian American/Pacific Islander, and Native American studies, as well as representatives from communities most frequently targeted by hate crimes according to the California Department of Justice's annual
Hate Crimes in California Report
.
In 2021, California passed AB 101, which outlined that the stories of California's ethnic communities would be included in high school curricula. While the Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum was created in 2021, it lacked
state-approved content standards that guide other academic subjects
and
remains a voluntary curriculum that school districts may or may not choose to use
.
Unfortunately, in California, the lack of clear standards for ethnic studies has resulted at times in lawsuits, divided communities, factually inaccurate materials, and harmful, antisemitic environments for Jewish students and families.
And for many Jews, fears intensified after October 7, 2023 when some ethnic studies curriculum and instruction contractors glorified Hamas and the violence committed that day.
While the Jewish community is currently experiencing the consequences of the lack of standards and infusion of bias into ethnic studies, other vulnerable communities are at risk of facing similar situations if standards are not swiftly implemented.
"As the former head of Equality California, I fought to include the stories of vulnerable communities in our schools," said
Assemblymember Rick Chavez Zbur
. "The lack of rigorous curriculum standards for ethnic studies has allowed groups with biased ideological agendas to peddle factually-inaccurate and blatantly antisemitic curriculum to school districts, posing a threat to Jewish children's safety. Unfortunately, antisemitism has only increased since the October 7 attacks. We must ensure that ethnic studies has standards like we do for other core curriculum. AB 1468 is necessary to achieve the original goals of ethnic studies — namely, to uplift all communities across the state, and foster a safe and supportive school climate for all students."
"As a public school teacher for over two decades, I know it is crucial for children to see themselves reflected in their education," said
Assemblymember Dawn Addis
. "For ethnic studies to fulfill its promise, we must ensure that every child is embraced, respected, and valued. That means investing in curriculum standards, and aligned materials and instruction, just as we do for English, math, science, health, physical education, history-social science and more. Strong, clear standards will prevent bias and hate from taking root and ensure ethnic studies creates understanding, respect, and compassion not just inside the classroom, but across our communities.'
"Education's purpose is to foster and promote understanding, rather than perpetuate division and prejudice," said
Senator Josh Becker
. "I was a history major, and I recognize the importance of telling everyone's stories. Ethnic Studies was created to emphasize the four major ethnic studies disciplines – the African American, Asian American and Pacific Islander, Latino/ChicanX and Native American communities. Unfortunately, the ethnic studies course in my kids' high school was replete with blatant factual inaccuracies and stereotypical content about minority groups. It is past time we standardize the ethnic studies curriculum content. AB 1468 ensures that this course remains true to its original intent — promoting inclusivity, respect, and historical accuracy for all communities with a domestic focus."
The key provisions of AB 1468 include:
State Standards for High School Ethnic Studies:
The State Board of Education (SBE) will establish clear content standards for ethnic studies, ensuring alignment with other subject areas.
Curriculum Oversight:
Local Educational Agencies (LEAs) must submit proposed ethnic studies curricula to the California Department of Education (CDE) for review and oversight.
Framework and Instructional Materials:
The Instructional Quality Commission (IQC) will review and recommend a framework and instructional materials that align with state standards, for adoption by the State Board of Education.
Enhanced Accountability:
The CDE will report annually to the Legislature on district compliance with state laws.
Immediate Safeguards:
Immediate Safeguards: Strengthened and accelerated guardrail protections under AB 101 to ensure that the original goals of ethnic studies are met while fostering an inclusive learning environment.
Community Input:
An advisory committee appointed by the Governor will provide input on implementation, including academic experts in the disciplines of African American, Latino/Chicanx, Asian American and Pacific Islander, and Native American studies and representatives of communities most frequently targeted by hate crimes.
Contractor Accountability:
Content providers and professional development contractors must submit materials for state oversight to ensure compliance with established standards.
With these guidelines, California will create curriculum standards that all teachers, students, parents and community members can rely upon to be rigorous, thoughtful and fact-based. This will in turn foster classroom climates that are safe and supportive for all students.
"If done right, ethnic studies is a good thing for all students," said
David Bocarsly, Executive Director of JPAC, the bill's sponsor and convener of major Jewish organizations.
"We lead a coalition of over 35 major Jewish organizations that believes that a more empathetic and understanding generation will lead to a safer society for everyone — including Jews. Unfortunately, in the absence of proper guidance, we have seen far too many instances of factually inaccurate and antisemitic content entering classrooms, sparking major concern and fear in Jewish communities across the state. We are grateful to Assemblymembers Zbur and Addis, Senator Becker, and the dozens of coauthors for recognizing the need to develop content standards and frameworks to ensure ethnic studies does not harm Jewish students and achieves our shared goals."
Assemblymember Rick Chavez Zbur serves as the Democratic Caucus Chair for the California State Assembly and represents the
51st Assembly District
, which includes Universal City, Hollywood, Hancock Park, West Hollywood, Beverly Hills, Westwood, West Los Angeles, Santa Monica, and other portions of Los Angeles.
Assemblymember Dawn Addis serves as the Assembly Subcommittee Committee No. 1 on Health, and represents the
30th Assembly District,
, covering portions of Santa Cruz, Monterey, and San Luis Obispo counties and includes Bradley, Carmel-by-the-Sea, Carmel Valley Village, Del Monte Forest, Del Rey Oaks, Fort Hunter Liggett, Lockwood, Marina, Monterey, Moss Landing, Pacific Grove, Sand City, Seaside, Arroyo Grande, Atascadero, Avila Beach, California Polytechnic State University, Cambria, Cayucos, Creston, Edna, Paso Robles, Garden Farms, Grover Beach, Lake Nacimiento, Los Osos, Los Ranchos, Morro Bay, Oak Shores, Oceano, Pismo Beach, San Luis Obispo, San Miguel, San Simeon, Santa Margarita, Shandon, Templeton, Whitley Gardens, Aptos, Capitola, Day Valley, La Selva Beach, Live Oak, Pajaro Dunes, Pleasure Point, Rio Del Mar, Seacliff, Soquel, and Twin Lakes.
Senator Josh Becker is the Chair of the Committee on Energy, Utilities and Communications and represents the
13th Senate District
covering portions of Santa Clara and San Mateo counties and includes the cities of Atherton, Belmont, Brisbane, Burlingame, Campbell, Cupertino, East Palo Alto, Foster City, Half Moon Bay, Hillsborough, Los Altos, Los Altos Hills, Los Gatos, Menlo Park, Millbrae, Monte Sereno, Mountain View, Pacifica, Palo Alto, Redwood City, San Bruno, San Carlos, San Mateo, Saratoga, South San Francisco, and Woodside.
MEDIA CONTACTS:
Asm Zbur, Vienna.Montague@asm.ca.gov
Asm Addis, Julianne.Cravotto@asm.ca.gov
Sen Becker, Charles.Lawlor@sen.ca.gov