Sacramento, CA
–Assemblymember Nick Schultz (D-Burbank) has been appointed to serve as the Chair of the Assembly Committee on Public Safety by Assembly Speaker Robert Rivas for the 2025-26 Legislative Session. The appointment places Schultz at the helm of the high profile committee as California begins to implement significant criminal justice reforms.
“I am incredibly honored and grateful to be appointed as Chair of the Assembly Committee on Public Safety, and I want to thank Speaker Rivas for the opportunity to serve in this capacity as a freshman legislator,” said Schultz. “I believe that the mission of the committee is to advance legislation that makes California safer for all who live and work here, and I look forward to working with all of my colleagues in a collaborative manner towards that goal.”
“Public safety immediately impacts Californians’ quality of life and sense of community. I’m confident Assemblymember Schultz will lean-in, listen and deliver balanced solutions,” said Assembly Speaker Robert Rivas. “I look forward to working with Nick to improve our services and continue to keep California safe for all residents.”
Schultz began his career in public service as a deputy district attorney. He went on to become a Deputy Attorney General for California, where he worked with local, state, and federal authorities on cases involving predatory financial fraud, public corruption, and human trafficking. His experience as a prosecutor, and his work with the City of Burbank to increase resources for mental health services, will help shape his role as Chair.
“As an experienced prosecutor, I have been on the frontlines going after organized crime and abuses of authority by public officials. I will utilized this experience to ensure that our justice system is effectively prosecuting those who abuse their power and endanger people’s lives and wellbeing, while ensuring everyone is given their Constitutional right to due process under the law,” said Schultz. “However, it is essential that we not merely respond to crime, but also take proactive measures to prevent the occurrence of crime in the first place. It’s equally important that we pursue legislative solutions that prevent crime, address system injustices, and promote rehabilitation and equity in our criminal justice system.”
##
Nick Schultz represents 44
th
Assembly District, which includes the cities of Burbank, Glendale, and Los Angeles, as well as the communities of La Crescenta, Lake View Terrace, Montrose, North Hollywood, Shadow Hills, Sherman Oaks, Sunland-Tujunga, Studio City, Toluca Lake, and Valley Village.