Israel and Hamas reach a ceasefire and hostage deal to reunite hostages with their families and surge much-needed humanitarian assistance to Palestinian civilians
SACRAMENTO, CA
— Democratic Caucus Chair and Assemblymember Rick Chavez Zbur (D-Hollywood) released a statement today expressing cautious optimism and relief at the Gaza ceasefire and hostage deal.
"After 15 months of unimaginable pain and devastation, there is finally a glimmer of hope. The hostages who have endured unbearable and unspeakable cruelties may soon be reunited with their families. While this moment offers relief, it also serves as a stark reminder of the suffering endured by both Israeli and Palestinian civilians.
"We must continue to demand the release of all hostages. A true path to peace cannot exist with Hamas as the governing force in Gaza. The horrors we witnessed on October 7, 2023—the brutal attacks, the livestreamed terror—will never be forgotten, nor will the consequences, including the displacement, suffering, and deaths of so many innocent Palestinians. This war has been a tragedy for so many, and while today brings hope, it also reminds us how much work remains to be done.
"We all want this to end. The world must come together to support a lasting and just peace—one that ensures safety, security, and dignity for both Israelis and Palestinians."
United States President Joe Biden announced the three-phase deal Wednesday morning
. In the first phase, Hamas promises to release 33 Israeli hostages in exchange for a large number of Palestinian detainees. Neither Israel nor Hamas immediately confirmed the deal, but officials say the ceasefire is due to start on Sunday. It will require formal ratification by Israel’s government before it can take effect.
Assemblymember Rick Chavez Zbur serves as the Democratic Caucus Chair for the California State Assembly and represents the 51st Assembly District, which includes Universal City, Hollywood, Hancock Park, West Hollywood, Beverly Hills, Westwood, West Los Angeles, Santa Monica, and other portions of Los Angeles.
CONTACT:
Vienna Montague, (916) 319-2051,
Vienna.Montague@asm.ca.gov