SACRAMENTO—
In a special ceremony at the State Capitol on Wednesday, Speaker Robert Rivas (D-Salinas) honored
Martha’s Kitchen
as the 2025 Nonprofit of the Year for Assembly District 29.
Founded in 1981, Louise Benson took her kitchen to the garage to make sandwiches and help feed the poor. The impromptu “little soup kitchen” ended up attracting the attention of Sacred Heart Church, where she and her friends began to prepare and serve hot meals for those most in need. Officially named “Martha’s Kitchen,” today the organization provides over 200,000 meals every month to those most in need in Santa Clara, San Benito, Monterey, and Santa Cruz counties, and throughout several cities and communities along the Central Coast.
“It is an absolute honor to receive this recognition from Speaker Robert Rivas. Our organization is dedicated and committed to writing a story about a food-secure future, one meal at a time. We are thankful for all of the support we have received through the years, to the volunteers and donors who continue to fuel our mission as we work towards providing nearly 2.5 million warm plates of food this year,”
said Bill Lee, Executive Director of Martha’s Kitchen
. “We couldn’t be more proud of our growth, our reach, and the lives we are changing along the way.”
Since its inception, Martha’s Kitchen has had a tremendous and lasting impact on Assembly District 29. The organization’s hot meal and grocery programs have helped those facing food insecurity, including farmworkers and residents who need support with basic necessities or who lack time to prepare a warm meal for themselves or their children.
“Martha’s Kitchen does an extraordinary job providing for hard-working residents of the Central Coast,”
Speaker Robert Rivas said
. “Their selfless work is truly remarkable, and I’m proud to announce Martha’s Kitchen as our Nonprofit of the Year.”
Last year, the organization rescued over 70,000 pounds of food and supported over 60 partner organizations. Volunteers spent over 20,000 hours, collectively to help serve warm meals to those in need.
To learn more about Martha’s Kitchen, visit their
website
.
For additional information, please contact:
Speaker Robert Rivas Press Secretary,
Cynthia.Moreno@asm.ca.gov
###
Speaker of the Assembly Robert Rivas represents California’s 29th Assembly District, which includes all of San Benito County and portions of Monterey, Santa Cruz, and Santa Clara Counties. For a full biography of Speaker Rivas, click
here
.