SACRAMENTO, CA – Today, Assemblymember Damon Connolly (D-San Rafael) honored 2024 Olympic Team member and Petaluma native Minna Stess on the Assembly floor. Stess is an eighteen-year-old professional skateboarder and a member of the USA Skateboarding National Team. She represented the United States in the Paris 2024 Summer Olympics in U.S. skateboarding in the women’s park event.
“Minna Stess has made our Sonoma County community proud by representing us on an international stage,” said Assemblymember Connolly. “It is my pleasure to host her and her family on the Assembly floor to recognize her amazing accomplishments.”
“I am honored to be invited and recognized at the State Capitol in Sacramento,” said Minna Stess. “Representing Petaluma, Sonoma County, California, and the U.S. in skateboarding at the Paris Olympics was a dream come true. I look forward to continuing my journey and hope to inspire younger generations to love skateboarding and have as much fun as I do.”
Stess has proudly and ably represented her community through her vast accolades in the professional skateboarding world, as well as through inspiring others with her mindset and positive attitude. Stess competed in her first professional skateboarding contest at the age of eleven, and by thirteen years old she was competing in the X Games, Dew Tour, and USA National Championship. Stess served as an alternate at the Tokyo 2020 Summer Olympics, and at fifteen, she was the youngest person in history to earn a gold medal at the 2021 USA National Championships’ Women’s Park competition. She was named to the USA Skateboarding Women’s Park National Team in 2019, and has been competing with the team ever since. Her accolades with the Women’s Park National Team include being the only American woman to podium in a Park event with a bronze medal at the 2023 World Championships and representing the United States at the 2024 Paris Summer Olympics.
Assemblymember Connolly was proud to honor Minna Stess on the Assembly floor and present her with a resolution to commend her achievements.
###
Assemblymember Connolly represents the entirety of Marin County and Southern Sonoma County