(SACRAMENTO, CA) - Assemblymember John Harabedian (D-Pasadena)
introduced his first bill, AB 91 the MENA Inclusion Act, aimed at ensuring Middle Eastern and North African (MENA) groups are accurately represented and recognized in demographic data collected by the state of California.
“The MENA Inclusion Act is a vital step in fulfilling our commitment to represent and serve every Californian,” said
Assemblymember Harabedian
. “Accurate data representation is essential for informed policy making, and by recognizing the MENA community as a unique and diverse group, we can tackle our communities' distinct challenges and ensure that our state policy truly reflects the diverse needs of all its residents”.
California is home to approximately 740,219 individuals who identify as Middle Eastern or North African (MENA), but they are currently classified under the broader "White" category in federal and state data. Accurate MENA-specific data is crucial for improving state planning, resource allocation, and policy interventions to better serve our community. In response to this gap, the Biden administration has announced a distinct MENA category in the 2030 U.S. Census, and New York has already passed similar legislation.
The MENA Inclusion Act will require that starting January 1, 2026, state agencies, boards, and commissions in California that collect demographic data on ancestry or ethnic origin must include separate categories for Middle Eastern and North African (MENA) groups. These groups include, but are not limited to:
Middle Eastern:
Afghan, Bahraini, Emirati, Iranian, Iraqi, Israeli, Jordanian, Kuwaiti, Lebanese, Omani, Palestinian, Qatari, Saudi Arabian, Syrian, Turkish, and Yemeni.
North African:
Algerian, Djiboutian, Egyptian, Libyan, Mauritanian, Moroccan, Somali, Sudanese, and Tunisian.
Transnational Middle Eastern and North African:
Amazigh, Armenian, Assyrian, Chaldean, Circassian, and Kurdish.
“The CA MENA Civil Rights Coalition applauds the introduction of the MENA Inclusion Act. California is home to a vibrant and diverse MENA community that has positively impacted the state for generations. However, the lack of a formal MENA category in demographic data has perpetuated inequities in healthcare, education, civil rights, and economic opportunities,” said The CA MENA Civil Rights Coalition. “The passage of the MENA Inclusion Act will enable policymakers and community organizations to accurately assess and address disparities faced by MENA populations, ensure the equitable allocation of resources across healthcare, education, and economic development, and recognize and uplift the unique cultural and economic contributions of MENA communities to California”.
AB 91 will be heard in Assembly policy committees this spring.