SACRAMENTO, CA –
Yesterday, Assemblywoman Pilar Schiavo’s bill, the Expediting State Housing Permits Act (AB 301) was passed as part of a major package of housing legislation aimed at tackling the state’s housing crisis. The bill streamlines the state permitting process and eliminates avoidable delays that slow down housing construction. Growing our housing stock more quickly and efficiently is a key piece of our efforts to make housing more affordable and available.
“In the middle of a housing crisis, it’s crucial we pull all the levers available to us to build more housing faster and that’s affordable. We can’t let bureaucracy needlessly delay these desperately needed housing projects,” said Assemblywoman Schiavo. “The Expediting State Housing Permits Act holds state agencies accountable to the same deadlines as local governments, so that families aren’t stuck waiting for what can be as simple as a state agency sign off.”
The goal of the Expediting State Housing Permits Act is to break down barriers to building more housing, which in the end will create more housing stock and lead to more housing that’s affordable. The bill aligns state review timelines with those already required of counties for completeness checks and permit approvals. If a state agency fails to meet the required deadlines, the permit is deemed approved or the review considered complete, removing one of the most frustrating roadblocks to getting housing built.
“We're tackling the housing crisis so that California can again be a place where new homes are built quickly, because housing supply is a key driver of overall affordability for families,” said Speaker Robert Rivas, who is joint authoring the Expediting State Housing Permits Act (AB 301). “The Assembly’s fast action on these housing bills is a key step toward reducing construction delays and cost overruns”
The legislation passed the Assembly with strong support and is now headed to the State Senate for consideration. The Expediting State Housing Permits Act is part of a broader legislative housing package of nine bills being expedited by the State Assembly that includes bills to accelerate local building reviews, temporarily pause costly new building standards, and help prevent homelessness, among others.
###
Assemblywoman Pilar Schiavo was elected to the California State Assembly in November of 2022 and re-elected in 2024 to represent the 40th Assembly District, representing the Northwest San Fernando Valley, Val Verde, Castaic and the Santa Clarita Valley. Upon her election, she was appointed as Assistant Majority Whip by the Speaker of the Assembly and now serves as Chair of the Assembly Committee on Military and Veterans Affairs. Prior to her election, Assemblywoman Schiavo was a Nurse Advocate and Small Business Owner who worked in the labor movement for more than 20 years. Throughout her career, Assemblywoman Schiavo helped deliver healthcare, including reproductive healthcare, to more than one million people. In the Northwest San Fernando Valley, she co-founded an organization that helped secure housing for Veterans experiencing homelessness, has delivered more than 50,000 meals to people in need, and increased resources to help keep our communities safe. Assemblywoman Schiavo lives in Chatsworth with her creative kid where they love to hike in the Santa Susana Mountains.