SACRAMENTO
— Assemblymember Josh Lowenthal (D–Long Beach) has announced the Long Beach Camerata Singers as the 69th Assembly District’s 2025 Nonprofit of the Year. The organization will be honored during a special ceremony and luncheon at the State Capitol on May 21, 2025, as part of California Nonprofits Day.
“Coming onto its 60
th
season, the Long Beach Camerata Singers have elevated the cultural life of our city through their world-class performances, inclusive outreach, and commitment to arts education,” said Assemblymember Lowenthal. “Their work exemplifies the power of music to build community, inspire young people, and bring us together across boundaries. I’m proud to recognize them for their invaluable contributions to the Long Beach region.”
Founded in 1966, the Long Beach Camerata Singers is a 80-voice professional-level choir known for its innovative programming and dedication to making choral music accessible to all. In addition to their renowned performances by the large chorus, the organization also features an Acapella chamber Ensemble, Catalyst. Camerata provides youth education programs, free community concerts and collaborations with other local arts institutions including the Long Beach Symphony.
“Long Beach Camerata is very grateful to Assemblymember Lowenthal for recognizing the contributions of our organization, especially as we enter our 60th season” said Camerata President Jan Hower. “It is with great pride that we at the Long Beach Camerata accept this recognition. We take great care to make sure we are providing musical experiences for all segments of our community: from children with little to no access, to the most seasoned arts patron. The healthiest of communities have healthy arts organizations and we are extremely happy to be a small part that ecosystem” Dr. James Bass, the organizations Artistic Director added.
The annual Nonprofit of the Year celebration is organized by Cal liNonprofits to highlight the critical role nonprofit organizations play in strengthening California’s communities. The recognition luncheon will bring together state legislators and nonprofit leaders from across California in celebration of outstanding service and impact.
For more information on the Long Beach Camerata Singers, visit
www.lbcamerata.org
.