SACRAMENTO, CA –
As Assemblymember Michelle Rodriguez’s (D-Ontario) Assembly Bill (AB) 63 advances to the Assembly Public Safety Committee, local elected officials and law enforcement leaders are thanking their colleagues in the State Legislature for scheduling an upcoming informational hearing in the 53rd Assembly District this fall. The hearing will foster continued conversations regarding this commonsense legislation.
AB 63 seeks to reinstate the prohibition against loitering in public with the intent to commit prostitution, making it a misdemeanor offense. Importantly, the bill also includes critical safeguards: it explicitly prohibits law enforcement from making arrests based solely on an individual’s gender identity or sexual orientation, and it requires officers to document efforts to offer supportive services before making an arrest. This balanced approach prioritizes both community safety and the protection of individual rights.
Assemblymember Michelle Rodriguez:
“The unfortunate truth is with the implementation of SB 357 (2022), law enforcement agencies lost their ability to effectively investigate and prosecute human trafficking and solicitation cases. It is time we once again support our law enforcement by restoring their ability to protect and serve our communities,” said Assemblymember Rodriguez. “The overwhelming passage of Proposition 36 made it clear: Californians want stronger protections against these crimes. We must act on their mandate and ensure our laws empower -not hinder- those working to keep our neighborhoods safe.
Thank you Assemblymember Schultz for making a commitment to travel to my district this year and hear directly from my constituents. Once my colleagues see and hear firsthand the struggles my district and the state face with prostitution and human trafficking, hopefully they will see the urgent need for AB 63 and join me in supporting this critical measure.”
Assemblymember and Public Safety Committee Chair Nick Schultz:
“Having collaborative conversations regarding public safety issues is the cornerstone of the Legislature’s work, and I look forward to visiting the 53rd Assembly District to continue these conversations regarding Assembly Bill 63. I appreciate Assemblymember Rodriguez’s leadership on this issue and look forward to learning more about the challenges her district faces and how this legislation aims to address those challenges,” said Assemblymember Nick Schultz, Chair of the Assembly Committee on Public Safety.
City of Salinas Councilmember Gloria DeLaRosa:
“Supporting Assembly Bill 63 is crucial in the fight against sex trafficking and prostitution, as it provides essential tools to combat exploitation and protect vulnerable individuals. Prostitution is happening right in front of our elementary school and the surrounding neighborhood causing real mental health issues for our children who have to see these activities every day when they walk home from school. We need AB 63 to protect our children and our communities. I want to thank Assemblymember Rodriguez and Assemblymember Schultz for their leadership on this important issue and for standing up for the safety and wellbeing of all Californian’s,” said Councilmember DeLaRosa
City of San Diego Mayor Gloria:
“Assembly Bill 63 will not only give our law enforcement officers the ability to protect against dangerous criminals who exploit vulnerable people and prey on our communities, but it will also provide much-needed protections to victims of sexual exploitation,” said San Diego Mayor Todd Gloria. “I thank Assemblymember Rodriguez for her leadership in bringing forward this important legislation and for her persistence in working toward restoring accountability, supporting survivors, and making our streets safer for everyone.”
California Police Chief’s Association:
“Our Association, comprised of Police Chiefs from across the state, strongly urges support for Assembly Bill 63. This legislation will enable public safety officers to once again engage with-and ultimately serve and protect-victims of human trafficking. Since the passage of SB 357, we have seen a sharp increase in both prostitution and human trafficking, yet our ability to intervene has been significantly hindered. That is why we call for strong support of AB 63-so that law enforcement can once again take meaningful action to address exploitation, restore order to our communities, and connect vulnerable individuals with the services they desperately need. Thank you to both Assemblymember Rodriguez and Assemblymember Schultz for their commitment to standing with victims and prioritizing public safety,” said the California Police Chief’s Association.
###