Childhood cancer is the leading cause of death by disease among children nationwide. Roughly 15,000 children are diagnosed with cancer every year. But the federal government is exacerbating existing gaps in pediatric cancer by slashing scientific research. Now, the Governor has signed Assemblymember Alex Lee’s legislation to bolster much needed funding for developing childhood cancer treatments. AB 703 provides Californians the opportunity to donate a portion of their state tax refund to support pediatric cancer research.
“It is more important than ever that we invest in the search for effective childhood cancer treatments,” said Assemblymember Lee. “I’m proud that the Governor signed AB 703, which will give everyone a chance to be part of the fight against pediatric cancer. I wanted to thank my constituent, Sahil Mehta, for proposing this important bill idea. It is through his advocacy that we will bring hope to countless families impacted by pediatric cancer. Sahil’s dedication shows the power of our young leaders in driving real and meaningful change.”
For Sahil from Fremont Irvington High School, advocating for those affected by childhood cancer is deeply personal. Sahil’s brother, Ronil, passed away from a type of brain cancer known as Diffuse Intrinsic Pontine Glioma.
"I lost my older brother Ronil to Diffuse Intrinsic Pontine Glioma (DIPG), a rare and aggressive brain cancer with a near-zero survival rate,” said Sahil, an American Cancer Society Cancer Action Network (ACS CAN) California Legislative Ambassador. “Before Ronil passed away at age 14, he decided to donate his tumor for cancer research to find ways to treat DIPG so others might have a chance. Ronil never lost hope, and neither can we. AB 703 gives Californians a direct way to help keep hope alive for a future where more kids can grow up and thrive despite a cancer diagnosis. What started as one family’s loss has now become a statewide commitment to children who deserve better treatments and better outcomes. I am deeply grateful to Assemblymember Alex Lee, Governor Newsom and everyone who believed in me and joined the fight against childhood cancer. Together, we have made history, and I hope this is just the beginning."
Like Sahil, Rayaan Kolte, whose brother also passed away from DIPG, has turned his grief into advocacy. The Kolte and Mehta families founded the Neev Kolte & Brave Ronil Foundation to advocate for families affected by pediatric cancer and raise funds for critical research. The foundation, alongside ACS CAN California, co-sponsored AB 703 in an effort to advance research funding for childhood cancer.
“I was inspired to get involved with advocacy when my younger brother Neev was diagnosed with DIPG at the age of 4,” said Rayaan. “AB 703 would help increase desperately needed research funding by giving Californians a way to directly contribute to the fight against pediatric cancer, so that kids like my brother might one day have a chance to grow up.”
Roughly one in five children diagnosed with cancer will not survive. Most survivors of childhood cancer develop chronic conditions or experience a severe or life-threatening condition due to treatment. Despite the urgent need, the federal government is gutting medical research funding, including extreme cuts to cancer studies. The Trump administration proposed a roughly 40% budget cut to the National Institutes of Health and about 37% reduction to the National Cancer Institute’s budget. Research institutions nationwide are seeing their cancer research grants on the chopping blocks.
AB 703 will create an essential funding stream in California dedicated towards research into childhood cancer.
“With the unprecedented proposed cuts to research funding at the National Institutes of Health and the National Cancer Institute, it’s more urgent than ever that we, as Californians, are able to step up to ensure critical cancer research doesn’t slow down or stop,” said Jen Grand-Lejano, ACS CAN Pacific Region Managing Director. “This new law will make it easier for the public to help fund promising childhood cancer research, bringing hope to families facing a heartbreaking diagnosis.”