(SACRAMENTO, CA) —
The California State Assembly recently passed Assembly Bill 280 with bipartisan support, authored by Majority Leader Cecilia Aguiar-Curry (D-Winters), advancing critical reforms to improve the accuracy of health plan provider directories. The bill heads to the State Senate for consideration.
“Patients should be able to trust that their health plan’s provider directory is accurate so they can find the care they need without delay or surprise medical bills,” said Majority Leader Aguiar-Curry. “AB 280 will finally hold health plans accountable and give consumers the reliability they need and deserve.”
Under current law, provider directories are frequently out of date—listing doctors no longer in-network, not accepting new patients, or who are unreachable. AB 280 sets enforceable benchmarks for directory accuracy starting at 60 percent and increasing to 95 percent by 2029, with escalating financial penalties for noncompliance. The bill requires health plans and insurers arrange patient care and cover out-of-network costs should patients rely on inaccurate listings, and to use a centralized database to streamline directory updates. The bill also requires health plans annually verify provider directory information in compliance with Department of Managed Health Care (DMHC) and California Department of Insurance (CDI) standards.
AB 280 is sponsored by Health Access California and supported by over 30 statewide health, consumer, and equity organizations. “Many health plan directories are so inaccurate that consumers can’t access a provider at all. Consumers should not have to call through inaccurate listings—it delays needed care and could lead to worsening health conditions,” said Katie Van Deynze, senior policy and legislative advocate with Health Access California. “AB 280 is key to making sure health plans keep up-to-date directories for consumers, so they can find care.”
Inaccurate directories disproportionately harm vulnerable communities, including those with limited English proficiency and people with disabilities. Aguiar-Curry concludes, “Imagine you’re a single mom with two jobs, or someone with language barriers or disabilities who already faces challenges accessing care. Are you ever going to actually access the health care you or your employer is paying for?”