SACRAMENTO, CA – Yesterday, Assemblymember Damon Connolly (D-San Rafael) honored Samantha Rodriguez on the Assembly floor as Assembly District (AD) 12’s Woman of the Year for 2025. Samantha has served on the Rohnert Park City Council since 2022, serving the people of Rohnert Park by promoting community, education, and advocacy.
“Samantha Rodriguez has dedicated her career to bettering our community through civic engagement and advocacy, and I am proud to recognize her as Assembly District 12’s Woman of the Year,” said Assemblymember Connolly. “Her impact on the City of Rohnert Park can not be overstated, and I am thankful for the opportunity to honor her service.”
“I am deeply honored to be recognized by Assemblymember Connolly as one of 80 women in the State as the 2025 Woman of the Year,’” said Samantha Rodriguez. “This acknowledgment not only celebrates my individual efforts but also highlights the collective work of the incredible women who inspire and support me. I am grateful for this opportunity to represent the City of Rohnert Park and AD12, but more importantly to continue empowering others and making a lasting impact in our community.”
The Woman of the Year event, in celebration of Women’s History Month, allows each member of the California State Legislature to honor an individual from their district for their contributions and accomplishments. The annual event is sponsored by the Women’s Caucus, and is a fantastic opportunity to formally recognize the remarkable women up and down the state.
Samantha Rodriguez is the youngest member ever to serve on the Rohnert Park City Council, and in 2023, she was elected to serve as Mayor of Rohnert Park for a one-year term. She was the first Latina to serve as Rohnert Park’s mayor, and the youngest person to ever hold the position. Samantha has tirelessly stood for our community’s values throughout her career, advocating for affordable housing, climate action, civic engagement, and strengthening the local economy. Assemblymember Connolly was proud to host Samantha and her family in Sacramento, and honor her with a resolution on the Assembly floor.