SACRAMENTO, CA
– Assemblymember Anamarie Ávila Farías (D-Martinez) released the following statement following Governor Gavin Newsom’s signing of Assembly Bill 1034: “California is experiencing a youth mental health crisis,” said
Assemblymember Ávila Farías
. “By incorporating youth mental health training into the credentialing process, we will ensure that teachers are equipped to recognize the signs of distress and respond appropriately. As a proud mother of two and former board of education trustee, I could not be more honored that my first bill signed into law addresses youth mental health in our schools.”
According to the California Department of Public Health (CDPH), the suicide rate for children 15-19 from 2020-2022 is 6.2%. Stated differently, CDPH estimates 496 children tragically take their own lives each year. With youth spending much of their days at school, signs and symptoms of mental illness can often present themselves in the classroom. Although our educators play a significant role in our children’s social, educational, and personal development, under existing law, the Teaching Performance Expectations (TPE) only encourages prospective educators to complete a mental health program and assessment.
AB 1034 directs the Commission on Teacher Credentialing (CTC) to update their TPE to require that the health education experience also include a basic understanding of youth mental health.
“Basic mental health skills training improves teachers’ understanding of the issues, takes the fear and hesitation out of starting conversations with students, and provides them with an action plan and the confidence to help,”
said Jeff Wiener, Director of Public Policy, Jewish Family and Children’s Services of San Francisco, the Peninsula, Marin and Sonoma Counties
. “This bill enables teachers to concentrate on meeting their students’ academic needs, and even to gain insight into their own mental health. We thank Assemblymember Ávila Farías and our partners at the California Behavioral Health Association for ensuring that pre-service teachers receive this vital training.”
Dr. Le Ondra Clark Harvey, CEO of the California Behavioral Health Association, shared the following reflection:
“Educators are often the first to notice when a student is struggling. AB 1034 ensures they won’t be the last to understand what to do next. This is how we break stigma, strengthen student wellness, and build a more responsive system. We applaud Governor Gavin Newsom, and the Legislature for recognizing the classroom as a frontline for mental wellness.”
AB 1034 will become law on January 1, 2026.
###
Assemblywoman Ávila Farías is Co-Chair of the Select Committee on Housing Finance and Affordability and represents California’s 15
th
Assembly District, covering the communities of Alhambra Valley, Antioch, Bay Point, Brentwood, Clayton, Clyde, Concord, Crockett, Martinez, Mountain View, Pacheco, Pittsburg, Pleasant Hill, Port Costa, Reliez Valley. Vine Hill, and Walnut Creek.
For media inquiries, please contact Matthew Boer at (916) 319-2015