SACRAMENTO—Assemblymember Dawn Addis (D-Morro Bay)
introduced AB 1487, aimed at strengthening the Transgender Wellness and Equity Fund by expanding its scope and impact. The bill renames the fund to the
Two-Spirit, Transgender, Gender Nonconforming, and Intersex (2TGI) Wellness and Equity Fund
and broadens its scope to better serve 2TGI individuals across California.
AB 1487 expands the definition of health care to include mental health care and extends grant eligibility funding to support programs that provide:
Workforce development training for 2TGI individuals
Resettlement and social integration programs for 2TGI asylees and immigrants
Diversion programs and outreach to transitional-age 2TGI youth
“As federal attacks escalate and attempts to erase people’s identity intensify, California cannot be complacent,” said Addis. “When policies or people waver, real commitment means standing firm, and not shifting with the political winds. AB 1487 strengthens this critical fund to ensure Two-Spirit, Transgender, Gender Nonconforming, and Intersex (2TGI) individuals receive the support they need to thrive, including access to health care, job training, and social integration programs.”
This bill is sponsored by the TransLatin@ Coalition, a nationally recognized organization that provides essential services to TGI individuals in 10 states across the country.
“AB 1487 will provide the much needed supportive services to all members of the Two Spirit, Trans, Genderexpansive and Intersex (2TGI) community in California,” said Bamby Salcedo, President/CEO of TransLatin@ Coalition “We are grateful for the leadership and support from Assemblymember Dawn Addis for understanding the importance of supporting organizations that provide services to 2TGI people, particularly In this political climate which is denying the ability for 2TGI people to be able to thrive. AB 1478 is a lifesaving legislation to all 2TGI people in California.”
AB 1487 now awaits referral to its first policy committee.
Dawn Addis was elected to the California State Assembly in 2022 to represent the coastal 30th Assembly District, which includes San Luis Obispo, Monterey, and Santa Cruz Counties. She is the Chair of the Assembly Budget Subcommittee 1 on Health.
CONTACT:
Alexis Garcia-Arrazola, (831) 649-2832