SACRAMENTO, CA
– Today, Assemblymember David Alvarez (D-San Diego), Co-Chair of the California Problem Solvers Caucus, announced that the bipartisan and bicameral caucus has reached an agreement on a set of guiding principles to reform the nation’s immigration system.
The announcement comes following a press conference held outside the California State Capitol, where members of the caucus formally unveiled their shared immigration reform framework.
“As a border legislator and son of immigrants, I know firsthand that California cannot wait for more gridlock in Washington,” said Assemblymember Alvarez. “These principles represent a bipartisan effort to move past division and put forward a balanced, realistic approach to immigration reform. I urge Congress to take up these principles and finally enact comprehensive immigration reform that our nation needs.”
The California Problem Solvers Caucus has outlined five bipartisan principles:
Acknowledging Contributions
: Undocumented immigrants and DACA recipients have long enriched California’s economy and culture.
Border Security
: A secure border is critical to stopping drug trafficking, preventing human exploitation, and protecting national safety.
Due Process Protections
: All people are entitled to equal treatment under the law—a core democratic value enshrined in the Constitution.
Economic Integration
: Millions of undocumented immigrants work in essential industries and pay taxes. Legal status would further unlock their economic contributions.
Pathway to Legal Status
: A legal pathway should exist for undocumented residents who do not pose public safety risks.
The California Problem Solvers Caucus, founded in 2020, brings together Republicans and Democrats from both the State Assembly and State Senate to pursue solutions through collaboration. Members that joined in Wednesday’s announcement include:
Senator Suzette Valladares (R-Santa Clarita), Co-Chair
Assemblymember David Alvarez (D-San Diego), Co-Chair
Assemblymember Anamarie Ávila Farías (D-Concord), Co-Chair
Assemblymembers Josh Hoover (R-Folsom), Juan Carrillo (D-Antelope Valley), Jeff Gonzalez (R-El Centro), Heath Flora (R-Ripon), Esmeralda Soria (D-Fresno), Laurie Davies (R-Laguna Niguel), and Darshana Patel (D-San Diego)
These reform principles will be relayed to federal legislators, including House members of the Problem Solvers Caucus, with a strong call for them to lead the charge on meaningful immigration reform.
###
The 80th Assembly District includes the communities of Barrio Logan, Logan Heights, Sherman Heights, Lincoln Acres, Bonita, Otay Mesa and San Ysidro, along with the cities of Chula Vista, National City and Imperial Beach.