What You Need to Know:
Managed honeybees are vital to California’s agriculture, contributing billions of dollars annually by pollinating over 100 crops like almonds, berries, and melons. Despite their economic and environmental importance, honeybee populations are declining due to climate change, habitat loss, and disease- threatening food security and agricultural productivity. California currently lacks state programs to help commercial beekeepers adapt to these growing climate-related challenges.
Sacramento, CA –
The California State Assembly passed AB 1042, a bill led by Assemblymember Rhodesia Ransom (D-Tracy) to create a Honeybee Health Program under the California Department of Food and Agriculture. Earlier this year, The Sacramento Bee reported that that cause of the unusual volume of bee deaths is unclear and may stem from a combination of factors ranging from pests, pesticides, viruses, housing conditions, climate and more.
Across the nation, commercial beekeepers are sounding the alarm. Between June 2024 and February 2025, they reported an average loss of 62% of their bee colonies, according to a national survey by Project Apis m., a nonprofit dedicated to bee research. These staggering losses threaten not just the beekeeping industry, but California’s food supply, which relies heavily on pollination.
AB 1042 addresses the crisis head-on. It strengthens bee health by investing in research, education, and pollinator-friendly practices. The program will offer incentives for commercial beekeepers and farmers to adopt practices that support pollinator health. It will also provide grants to tribes, schools, nonprofits, and local groups to advance bee health research. In addition, it funds hands-on projects that train beekeepers and demonstrate real-world solutions.
“They say the Central Valley is America’s breadbasket- but if we can’t protect our bees, the breadbasket will go empty” said Assemblymember Rhodesia Ransom.
AB 1042 is proudly supported by a broad coalition of agricultural and industry leaders, including the CA Fresh Fruit Association (Sponsor), CA Farm Bureau, CA State Beekeepers Association, Almond Alliance, Agricultural Council of CA, CA Chamber of Commerce and many others committed to saving our Honeybees and protecting our Agriculture.
AB 1042 now heads to the Senate.