SACRAMENTO, CA —
Assemblymember Michelle Rodriguez (D-Ontario) Assembly Bill (AB) 63 reinstates prohibiting loitering in a public place with the intent to commit prostitution and will make it unlawful to loiter with this intent. This bill provides a mechanism for public safety officers to combat prostitution and sex trafficking in their neighborhoods.
“Assembly Bill 63 ensures we strengthen enforcement against human trafficking and allows us to give victims a voice. While California recently decriminalized loitering, an unintended consequence of this legislation has emboldened traffickers who prey on vulnerable victims. Human trafficking is a horrific crime, and I am committed to ensuring California’s law enforcement agencies have the necessary tools to protect and serve all Californians,” said Assemblymember Rodriguez.
Mayor Gloria (San Diego)
“The unfortunate truth is that San Diego has seen a sharp increase in prostitution and human trafficking since the passage of SB 357, harming neighborhoods and local businesses where loitering is concentrated,” said San Diego Mayor Todd Gloria. “AB 63 is a common-sense measure to restore law enforcement’s ability to stop illegal activity while also helping victims escape exploitation. I thank Assemblymember Rodriguez for authoring this bill, and I look forward to seeing this legislation passed and signed into law.”
Mayor Dyer (Fresno)
“A few years ago, California decriminalized loitering for prostitution. While well meaning, this law unfortunately helped both prostitution and human trafficking flourish. AB 63 is a step towards righting this wrong by turning back that key part of the law and once again giving law enforcement a valuable tool to help deal with the human trafficking scourge. I spent 40 years in law enforcement, including 18 as a police chief. I have personally witnessed the horrors of trafficking humans for sex. As leaders we must do all we can to end this inhumane practice.”
Jason Salazar (California Police Chiefs President)
"Law enforcement has no desire to criminalize victims, but the reality is we have been experiencing significant challenges in intervening to stop these open-air prostitution markets that attract crime and put more people in jeopardy,” states California Police Chiefs President, Jason Salazar. "AB63 gives law enforcement the tools we need to address the public safety risks, while prioritizing fair policing and services for those in need."
###