SACRAMENTO –
Today, Assemblymember Mia Bonta (D-Oakland), Chair of the Assembly Health Committee, released the following statements reacting to Governor Newsom’s May Revision, including recently announced actions to reduce prescription drug costs:
On the May Revision…
“I'm disheartened that the Governor's updated budget is riddled with deep cuts to our constituents' healthcare. We cannot boast about having the fourth-largest economy while balancing our budget on the back of everyday Californians' healthcare. As Chair of the Assembly Health Committee, I have been committed to collaborating with our state leaders to consider the long-term costs of failing to invest in necessary health care. We know that denying coverage, increasing premiums, and imposing asset tests will harm the financial security of some of our most in-need families while increasing paperwork and emergency room visits. These cuts would have direct impacts on families across the state, from the college student who will suffer from cavities longer because they lost their dental care, to the adult who had to leave their job after their mom lost their long-term care. I will continue to work with my colleagues in the Assembly, the Senate, and the Governor's office to advocate for the needs of the East Bay families and our most vulnerable communities,”
said Assemblymember Mia Bonta.
On Action to Lower Drug Costs
“I’m happy to see the Governor taking decisive action to address our shared concerns about the skyrocketing costs of drugs and how they are burdening California families. I introduced AB 910 this year because we know runaway PBMs are driving up these prices. I’m excited to see the Governor supporting common-sense policies that will rein in PBM practices, promote affordability, and increase transparency and accountability.  I look forward to continuing to work with the Governor and my colleagues on the Assembly and Senate Budget Committees to address these pressing issues,”
said Assemblymember Mia Bonta (D-Oakland).
Read the Governor’s full press release
HERE
.
###
Assemblymember Mia Bonta
represents California’s 18
th
Assembly District encompassing the East Bay including Oakland, Alameda, and Emeryville. She also chairs the Assembly Health Committee.
Courtesy photos can be found
HERE
.