What You Need to Know:
Many small and mid-sized wineries face pressure to cut costs, often turning to cheaper imported bottles, taking money out of the local economy by importing foreign-made glass bottles. California wineries choosing to import foreign-made glass bottles are putting local glass manufacturers at risk.
Sacramento, CA –
The California State Assembly passed AB 899 by Assemblymember Rhodesia Ransom (D-Tracy), a step to protect California’s wine industry from the growing threat of cheap imported glass. With local California wineries facing up to 50% increases in glass costs, many are being forced to look overseas for cheaper options. At the same time, federal investigations are underway into bottle dumping from China, Mexico, and Chile- practices that have already contributed to the closure of at least one California glass plant.
AB 899 gives wineries the support they need to choose California-made glass and helps level the playing field for local manufacturers. The bill is designed to protect over 1,000 union jobs and keep California competitive in a market increasingly flooded with low-cost imports. By incentivizing the purchase of local glass, this bill also strengthens the state’s supply chain, helping wineries and glass manufacturers thrive together.
The Glass Packaging Institute, a sponsor of AB 899, applauded the bill’s passage in the State Assembly. “California’s glass container manufacturers appreciate the efforts of Assemblymember Ransom and applaud the Assembly vote on AB 899,” said Scott DeFife, President of the Glass Packaging Institute. “This bill will help reduce in-state operational costs and help the industry compete against global competitors.”
“Currently, California produces 81% of our nation’s wine, but many of the glass bottles are imported from foreign countries.” Said Assemblymember Rhodesia Ransom. “Representing one of the few remaining glass manufacturing plants in California, I see the urgent need to support our local glass plants that are facing closure and putting around 1,000 union jobs at risk.”
In San Joaquin County, Dan Riemenschneider, senior plant manager at O-I Glass, emphasized the importance of recycled materials in wine production. “Recycled glass is a key ingredient in producing new glass packaging for California’s wine industry,” he said. “The Buy California Glass Bottle Procurement and Incentive Program, introduced by Assemblymember Ransom, gives winemakers the support they need to meet their sustainability goals by increasing the use and availability of recycled glass for packaging made right here in California.”
AB 899 now heads to the Senate.
####