(SACRAMENTO, CA)
– In response to California’s ongoing housing crisis, Assemblymember Chris Ward (D-San Diego) has introduced legislation to streamline the review and issuance of post-entitlement permits needed to build new homes after a project is approved for small residential projects. AB 253 will allow developers and homeowners to enlist licensed third-party professionals to expedite the permitting process, if it would take the local building department longer than 30 days to conduct that review.
"We need to accelerate the permitting process,"
said Assemblymember Ward.
"Streamlining post-entitlement permitting is crucial to addressing key bottlenecks at the local level and turning approved projects into much-needed homes.”
In California, a project must first secure initial land use approvals and entitlements, granting a developer the right to use a parcel for a specific purpose, such as building homes. However, construction cannot commence until the necessary post-entitlement permits are obtained, which authorizes the developer to proceed with detailed construction plans. This process is often subject to delays caused by fluctuating workloads and limited resources in local building departments.
“
The housing crisis in California demands bold, thoughtful solutions,”
said
Assemblymember Sharon Quirk-Silva (D-Fullerton), a joint author on the legislation.
“AB 253 empowers local governments and applicants alike by cutting unnecessary delays, holding everyone accountable, and moving projects forward with urgency. By streamlining the permitting process, we can reduce delays, boost housing production, and ultimately make California a more affordable place to live.”
Delays in the local government approvals process for housing developments are cited as a significant constraint on development and restricts our state’s vital housing production pipeline. On average, fully-entitled apartment buildings in the state take approximately nine months to secure post-entitlement permits, slowing construction and increasing costs. For homeowners seeking to construct smaller housing projects, such delays can be discouraging and may ultimately lead to project abandonment.
"California’s cost of living crisis demands immediate action—and that includes expediting housing reviews to build homes faster,"
said Brian Hanlon, CEO of California YIMBY.
"Assemblymember Ward’s bill is a game-changer, saving builders time and money by streamlining approvals. Cities ease their workload, and Californians get more homes. It’s a win-win, and we’re proud to partner with Assemblymember Ward to push this vital piece of legislation forward."
AB 253 would cut bureaucratic red tape and streamline post-entitlement plan checks for certain residential projects.  Providing an alternative mechanism for applicants, such as using licensed probate professionals at this stage, following best practices from other countries like the United Kingdom and Japan, and recent legislative actions in states like Florida, Tenn
essee, and Texas.