SACRAMENTO, CA
– Demonstrating her commitment to public safety, including protecting victims and small businesses, and supporting law enforcement officers, Assemblywoman Pilar Schiavo has introduced critical legislation aimed at strengthening public and community safety. The legislative package includes the Victim and Witness Protection Act (AB 535), Small Business Retail Theft Grants (AB 949), Police Pension Tax Exemption (AB 814), and protecting funding for crime victims (VOCA Funding Ask) in the State budget.
“Everyone in our community - from small business owners, to victims and witnesses of crime, to law enforcement officers who dedicate their lives to keeping us safe - deserve our support. These bills will go a long way to ensuring we are keeping people and our small business safe and giving law enforcement the ability to thrive,” said Assemblywoman Schiavo. “As a Member of the Select Committee on Retail Theft, the representative of a large law enforcement community who work to keep us safe and should be able to retire with dignity, and a victim of crime myself, the responsibility to protect our community is one I take very seriously. These bills move forward important protections and supports to make that real.”
Victim and Witness Protection Act (AB 535)
The Victim and Witness Protection Act strengthens legal protections for victims and witnesses, ensuring their safety before and after criminal charges are filed. By providing essential safeguards, this measure empowers victims—particularly survivors of domestic violence and human trafficking—to seek justice without fear of intimidation or retaliation. This bill eliminates a legal barrier that victims currently face seeking protection from intimidation. This Act will provide an extra layer of protection for survivors and witnesses to assist law enforcement with the vital information needed to solve crimes, support survivors, and ensure our communities are safe.
Small Business Retail Theft Grants (AB 949)
As small businesses and independent retailers have recently faced a retail theft crisis, this bill establishes the Small Business Retail Theft Grant Program to provide financial resources to small businesses to purchase needed security improvements. From investing in surveillance equipment to reinforcing store safety measures, this bill ensures that small businesses - the backbone of our economy - can protect their livelihoods and contribute to safer communities.
Police Pension Tax Exemption (AB 814)
California’s high cost of living and tax burdens have driven many retired law enforcement officers to leave the state, taking their experience and knowledge with them. The Police Pension Tax Exemption Bill supports the retention of retired peace officers by exempting law enforcement pensions from state income tax between 2025 and 2030. After dedicating their lives to serving our community and helping to ensure our safety, this bill helps to honor that service.
Victims of Crime Program Funding Request
The Victims of Crime Act (VOCA) Fund is a crucial resource for organizations aiding survivors of domestic violence, elder abuse, and human trafficking. As federal funding for these programs declines, Assemblywoman Schiavo is leading an effort to backfill lost funding to ensure these life-saving services remain available.
Together, these measures reflect Assemblywoman Schiavo’s commitment to safer communities—where victims and witnesses of crime are protected, small businesses are supported, and law enforcement officers receive the financial stability they deserve.
###
Assemblywoman Pilar Schiavo was elected to the California State Assembly in November of 2022 and re-elected in 2024 to represent the 40th Assembly District, representing the Northwest San Fernando Valley, Val Verde, Castaic and the Santa Clarita Valley. Upon her election, she was appointed as Assistant Majority Whip by the Speaker of the Assembly and now serves as Chair of the Assembly Committee on Military and Veterans Affairs. During her first term she brought back a record $93 million district investment in school and community safety, seniors meal programs, veteran housing, domestic violence services and creating local jobs. Prior to her election, Assemblywoman Schiavo was a Nurse Advocate and Small Business Owner who worked in the labor movement for more than 20 years. Throughout her career, Assemblywoman Schiavo helped deliver healthcare, including reproductive healthcare, to more than one million people. In the Northwest San Fernando Valley, she co-founded an organization that helped secure housing for Veterans experiencing homelessness, has delivered more than 50,000 meals to people in need, and increased resources to help keep our communities safe. Assemblywoman Schiavo lives in Chatsworth with her creative kid where they love to hike in the Santa Susana Mountains.