SACRAMENTO, CA – Assemblywoman Esmeralda Soria (D- Merced) released the following statement on Governor Newsom’s May Revise, which was released this week:
“The 2025-2026 May budget revisions have a lot of work to do. California is in a precarious situation facing a $12 billion dollar deficit. A deficit that is no surprise a result of economic policies at the federal level, which create uncertainty in state, federal and global markets. We saw today that even house Republicans failed to pass a spending plan, which leaves us even more unprepared.
I remain committed to ensure we achieve affordability for Californians when it comes to housing, the prices they see at the grocery store, and the prices that matter for everyday Californians. We still have egg prices at high levels. As someone who represents our state’s bread basket—We can do better. Let me be clear, I will keep fighting to make life in the Central Valley easier, not harder, and more affordable.
AGRICULTURE
As Chair of the Agriculture Committee, I’m relieved to announce the Department of Food and Agriculture’s (CDFA) budget has been
increased by $6 million
. This change was made in order to respond to current and future threats to animal and human health, as a result of increased animal disease outbreaks like Avian Influenza or “bird flu”. This has impacted our district in the Central Valley exponentially, with poultry and egg farmers having to cull thousands of birds at any given moment when a bird tests positive—thus creating severe financial strain that makes its way to the average Californian. I applaud the Governor’s decision to increase CDFA’s budget.
WATER
I applaud the May Revise plan to streamline the Delta Conveyance Project as well. This will save time and reduce costs to update the State Water Project to reliably deliver water to farms, homes and businesses. The proposal will speed up the construction of the Delta Conveyance Project saving billions of dollars by avoiding unnecessary delays, cutting red tape and getting the project done.
HIGH SPEED RAIL
We need to fund California’s High Speed Rail, period. We also need to do something we haven’t been doing when it comes to this project:
Operate with oversight and accountability when it comes to meeting timelines
. The Central Valley needs High Speed Rail. The May Revise proposes $1 billion annually to build the High Speed Rail system with speed and less delays.
The completion of High Speed Rail is a high priority for Central Valley communities that depend on the economic impact, and the countless jobs the project will bring to the area. High Speed Rail is a once-in-a-generation investment that will bring economic mobility and clean transportation to the heart of California. We must not reverse course now and abandon it.
HIGHER EDUCATION
I’m pleased to announce the May Revision proposes a total funding of
$45.7 billion
for the
Higher Education
segments and the California Student Aid Commission, which encompasses the UC and CSU systems. From these funds, we find incredible investments in desperately needed financial aid for our California students, which include:
$2.8 billion for Cal Grants
, and
$64.2 million for the Golden State Teacher Grant Program.
I look forward to working with the Governor and my colleagues in the Legislature to ensure a final product of this budget reflects the needs of my communities in the Central Valley, and is reflective of our values.”
# # #
Assemblywoman Esmeralda Soria represents the 27th Assembly District which includes communities in Fresno, Madera, and Merced counties.