SACRAMENTO
– Assemblymember Ash Kalra’s (D-San José) Assembly Bill (AB) 863 and AB 878 passed the Assembly to provide protections for Californian renters, whether they are confronting a language barrier or healing from domestic abuse.
AB 863 ensures basic language access protections for tenants facing an eviction by requiring notices, complaints, and summons to be translated if the tenant notifies their landlord that their primary language is Spanish, Chinese, Tagalog, Vietnamese, or Korean. This will allow tenants to better exercise their rights and be responsive to issues before they result in a potential eviction.
“AB 863 is a win-win for tenants and landlords because it helps tenants understand critical notices and the risk of losing their home. By understanding the reasons for an impending eviction, tenants can more effectively tackle the situation, helping to resolve issues and prevent a lengthy legal process for landlords,” said
Assemblymember Kalra
. “I am proud that in California we embrace our diversity in language and it is reflective in policy.”
AB 878 provides critical housing stability for victims of violence and abuse by allowing them to request reasonable accommodations from their landlords. These accommodations can include unit transfers, parking changes, additional time moving, additional time to pay rent, and permission to install a doorbell camera.
“Domestic violence is intrinsically linked with housing insecurity, creating a vicious cycle that traps victims in patterns of instability and harm. By clearing the pathway for survivors to have reasonable accommodations, AB 878 will help them remain in their homes and support their healing,” said
Assemblymember Kalra
.
AB 863 is sponsored by Asian Americans Advancing Justice Southern California (AJ-SOCAL) and Western Center on Law and Poverty. AB 878 is sponsored by Californians for Safety and Justice, Women’s Foundation California, Solis Policy Institute, and Housing Opportunities Mean Everything (HOME) Cohort.
###
Assemblymember Ash Kalra
represents California’s 25th Assembly District, which encompasses the majority of San José, including downtown and open space areas in southeast Santa Clara County. He was first elected in 2016, becoming the first Indian American to serve in the California Legislature in state history, and was re-elected to his fifth term in 2024. Assemblymember Kalra is the Chair of the Committee on Judiciary and also serves as a member on the Housing & Community Development, Labor & Employment, Natural Resources, and Utilities & Energy committees.