Palmdale, CA –
Today, Assemblymember Juan Carrillo hosted a press conference at his Palmdale District Office to wrap up the Latino Caucus Tour, showcasing the economic potential and legislative priorities of Assembly District 39. This press conference served as an opportunity to reflect on the last two days of the tour for the Latino Caucus and highlight the key takeaways from the event, as well as the essential work local organizations are doing to support the region’s growth.
Assemblymember Juan Carrillo was joined by Senator Bob Archuleta, Board member Antonio Vazquez (Board of Equalization), Mayor Richard Loa (City of Palmdale), Arthur Sohikian (Executive Director of the North County Transportation Coalition), John Smelzer (Founder and President of AV Alta FC), Assemblymember Carrillo spoke about the importance of the Latino Caucus’ continued commitment to the region. “Over the past two days, we’ve had the opportunity to bring together over Seven Latino Caucus members who visited our region to engage directly with the unique challenges and opportunities we face in the Antelope Valley, High Desert, and Victor Valley,” said Carrillo. “The tour has been invaluable in helping us better understand the diverse needs of our communities and work toward legislative solutions that promote economic growth and equity.”
Senator Bob Archuleta, a member of the Latino Caucus, emphasized the significance of collaboration across regions. “California continues to lead in innovation that much is clear with our visit to Plant 42. Not only is it a beacon of California’s role in developing cutting edge technology, it is a testament to the importance of industry to our local economies. It is also clear, now more than ever, that we must protect our families and most vulnerable communities. Communities cannot prosper when parents are afraid to leave their homes, when they fear going to work because they may not come back to their kids. We need to ensure people can go to work, provide for their families, and help local economies thrive”
Arthur Sohikian of the North County Transportation Coalition highlighted vital infrastructure projects like the High Desert Corridor and SR-14 improvements, which are integral to regional mobility and growth. “Our transportation initiatives will significantly enhance connectivity and job opportunities, which are key to the success of AD 39,” Sohikian explained.
John Smelzer, Founder of AV Alta FC, shared how sports and community engagement are critical in fostering wellness and opportunity. “Through our programs, we’re building a healthier, more empowered community,” said Smelzer. “Public-private partnerships are essential in developing infrastructure that supports our youth and future leaders.”
The Latino Caucus Tour has brought together key legislators and local leaders to gain firsthand insight into the needs and opportunities across AD 39, which includes the cities of Palmdale, Lancaster, Victorville, Adelanto, and Hesperia. The tour’s goal was to strengthen collaboration among state lawmakers and local stakeholders to support policies that foster economic development, improve infrastructure, and ensure equity for all communities.
Assemblymember Carrillo closed the event by reinforcing the importance of continued partnership and advocacy: “We will continue to work with local organizations, industries, and community leaders to ensure that AD 39 remains a hub for growth and opportunity, where the state government listens and acts to support all residents.”
For more information contact Jacqueline Escobar at Jacqueline.Escobar@asm.ca.gov
###