SACRAMENTO,CA
—Today, Speaker Robert Rivas (D-Salinas) introduced a resolution to proclaim May 9 to 15 as the 2025 National Stuttering Acceptance Awareness Week.
Stuttering is a form of speech diversity and should be recognized as simply a different way of speaking for the estimated 3 million Americans who stutter.
“Like many others across California and the United States, I have a stutter and I’ve had a stutter my entire life, “ Speaker Robert Rivas said in 2023, during a
press conference
announcing
Assembly Concurrent Resolution No. 59
, which proclaimed Stuttering Awareness Week. “There are certain words I can’t say. For this reason, public speaking is not one of my favorite things to do, but it is an unavoidable part of the work I do as an elected official, and I have been driven to public service to give back and to represent my community.”
This week, Speaker Rivas introduced Assembly Resolution 86 to continue the conversation around stuttering. A growing number of families in California have a family member with a stutter, and know that inclusion is a crucial element for their loved ones’ future success.
Filmmaker and Founder of
Proud Stutter
, Maya Chupkov, who has been a vocal advocate and manages a podcast about shifting the narrative around stuttering and embracing speech diversity, supported the resolution in 2023 and is proud to continue to support public awareness and acceptance.
“It’s an honor to continue working alongside Speaker Rivas to uplift the voices of people who stutter. At
Proud Stutter
, we believe that true awareness must be rooted in acceptance—because stuttering is not something to fix, but a way of speaking that deserves understanding and respect. The addition of the word acceptance in this year’s resolution builds on the progress made since our 2023 resolution and marks a powerful next step toward greater visibility and equity. With partners like Michael Kidd-Gilchrist and Change & Impact, we’re proud to be growing a speech diversity movement here in California that centers inclusion, access, and community,” Chupkov said.
In 2023, California became the first state in the nation to proclaim May 8 to May 13 as  Stuttering Awareness Week. The goal is to continue to provide avenues of inclusiveness for those who stutter and to fully support and welcome the voices of people who stutter at the local and state government levels. This year’s proclamation emphasizes the importance of appreciating and embracing those who stutter and have other speech impediments.
For additional information, please contact:
Speaker Robert Rivas Press Secretary,
Cynthia.Moreno@asm.ca.gov
###
Speaker of the Assembly Robert Rivas represents California’s 29th Assembly District, which includes all of San Benito County and portions of Monterey, Santa Cruz, and Santa Clara Counties. For a full biography of Speaker Rivas, click
here
.