SACRAMENTO, C.A., February 10, 2025 —
California State Assembly Member Catherine Stefani (District 19, San Francisco) introduced groundbreaking state-wide legislation (
AB458
) that would require a comprehensive vetting process for members of the gun industry seeking to supply state law enforcement agencies. The bill ensures potential vendors are vetted for compliance with state and federal regulations, implementation of anti-straw purchase policies, inspection histories, and use the safest business practices shown to reduce the likelihood of trafficking, gun crime, and violence.
This bill addresses a shocking problem, recently exposed by a Brady
investigation
, which found law enforcement agencies across California have
spent millions of taxpayer dollars
to buy firearms from manufacturers and dealers with repeated
violations
of federal firearm regulations. The new system would enable the state to make more informed procurement decisions through a thorough assessment of suppliers' practices and compliance records.
As the
number one
purchaser of firearms in America, government agencies wield significant market power. Assembly Member Stefani’s bill aims to leverage this influence to ensure that state firearm industry vendors comply with state and federal law and engage in safe business practices. This bill builds upon the growing movement of responsible local procurement legislation that, with Brady’s leadership, has recently passed in cities such as
Los Angeles
,
San Francisco
, and
San Diego
.
California State Assembly Member, Catherine Stefani, said:
Studies have shown that guns used in crimes often trace back to dealers who disregard the law. By leveraging California’s immense buying power and requiring a rigorous vetting process for state law enforcement to purchase guns, we can demand higher standards, prevent public funds from going to dealers who violate gun safety laws, and keep our communities safer.
Steve Lindley
, a Former California Law Enforcement Leader and Senior Programs and Policy Manager at Brady, said:
Ensuring that law enforcement firearms and accessories are only purchased from responsible gun dealers and vendors is a common-sense and critical step towards bringing accountability to the gun industry and stopping the flow of the crime guns devastating our communities. For too long, problematic firearms industry members have flouted the law and engaged in dangerous business practices. This piece of legislation will help protect taxpayer dollars from fueling these problematic sellers, and protect our communities from violence brought on by illegal firearms. Brady is proud to sponsor Assembly Member Stefani’s legislation, and we look forward to continuing to lead the effort for states to introduce — and pass — similar common-sense legislation across the country.
###