Newsletter: Sign Up For The Latest Updates

California leaders call for action to address alarming gaps in Holocaust education

SACRAMENTO, CA – On the 80th anniversary of the liberation of Auschwitz, California lawmakers are shining a light on a gap in Holocaust and genocide education in the state’s schools.

Governor Gavin Newsom and the Governor’s Council on Holocaust and Genocide Education released a groundbreaking report, “Holocaust and Genocide Education in California: A Study of Statewide Context and Local Implementation.” The report investigates the state of education across California to ensure educators and students are empowered with the tools to confront hate, bigotry, and misinformation while fostering empathy and resilience.

Of the 143 school districts who responded (most didn’t), just 26% have programs for Holocaust or other genocide education. The gap is both rural (24%) and urban (31%), leaving a concerning hole in both liberal and conservative communities for internet disinformation and antisemitism to spread.

“Eighty years ago, Auschwitz was liberated,” Today, most young Americans have never heard of such a place.” Senator Stern noted, “ We have a blind spot in our education system when it comes to Holocaust and genocide education.”

Over the last two years Senator Stern committed to expanding Holocaust and genocide education throughout California schools. He has joined forces with California Attorney General Rob Bonta, State Superintendent of Public Instruction Tony Thurmond, and the California Legislative Jewish Caucus to champion this cause.

“The California Department of Education is on the right track,” Stern highlighting efforts by the department to collaborate with local groups to increase awareness and education. “Thanks to our legislative leaders and Governor’s leadership in funding the Teacher’s Collaborative, we now have a place educators can go to develop the skills and support they need to bring Holocaust education back to life in California classrooms.”

Voices Driving Change Across CA Schools The California Teacher’s Collaborative for Holocaust and Genocide Education, codified last year with Senator Stern’s SB 1277 , has already hosted 1500+ teachers and administrators since its inception in 2021. The legislation, aiming to reach 1 million students with an initial public investment of $2 million (21-22 budget), $1.5 million (23-24 budget) and 5 million (24-25 budget), is to train 8400 teachers by 2029 and 1,062,500 students by end of decade.

Yesterday CDE and the CA Teachers Collaborative hosted an event for school leadership to end hate.

Lilian, a Social Studies teacher from Mendocino County, emphasized, “This collaborative is really important. It helps me get resources, materials, and connections to bring in lesson plans so that I can teach empathy and teach history accurately. I’ve learned more from this than any other professional development in my 18 years of teaching.”

Lina, a Human Rights Educator focused on the Uyghur genocide , highlighted the importance of addressing ongoing atrocities: “The Collaborative has enabled me to create a project that focuses on the education of the Uyghur genocide, which remains a largely under-reported issue. Educators learning about this genocide is critical to informing students and raising awareness so people can take action.”

Educators like David, from Bishop Unified School District , are already seeing the impact: “This is all about developing compassion and empathy, and that’s what’s most important.”

“I came with my coworker, and we are going to spend  time digesting and talking and planning on how we use this day and all we learned to better our district.” (School Leader)

“I will intentionally bring this topic back to my team of executive leadership coaches and also school counselors often on the frontline of responding to acts of racism/antisemitism.” (School Leader)

State Investment and Support

Recommendations for Strengthening Education

For more information on the report and its findings, read the full study HERE .

Office Information

Capitol Office

1021 O Street, Suite 7710 Sacramento, CA 95814 Phone: (916) 651-4027 Fax: (916) 651-4927

District Office

14724 Ventura Blvd., Suite 1115 Sherman Oaks, CA  91403 Phone: (818) 876-3352 Fax: (818) 876-0802