Bills improve criminal justice system by expanding jail facility standards for incarcerated individuals and protecting juveniles from unnecessary detention

SACRAMENTO, CA —The Assembly Public Safety Committee today voted unanimously to approve two bills authored by Senator Josh Becker (D – Menlo Park) .

SB 448 creates equity in youth detention regardless of where a child lives. Specifically, it removes a youth’s county of residence as a main factor of consideration in determining whether a youth should remain in detention or be released on an alternative program so that judges can focus on the best interests of the minor and community. In doing so, this bill prevents the juvenile justice system from separating children from their families, their education, and their communities, solely due to their zip code.

SB 762 requires the Board of State and Community Corrections (BSCC) to improve deficiencies in Sheriff’s Department’s jail facility policies where statewide corrections standards are not sufficiently robust. Specifically, this bill updates jail facility standards to include specific procedures to ensure that incarcerated individuals are alive and well in the county jail facilities. It also requires a consistent statewide protocol across jail facilities in line with the procedures already in place for the California Department of Corrections and Rehabilitation.

“These public safety bills protect juveniles from being subject to unnecessary exposure to the criminal justice system and ensure that all incarcerated individuals are subject to the same universal standard in all jail facilities,” said Becker . “By addressing these conditions for juveniles and incarcerated individuals, California will guarantee quality health and treatment for people in jail facilities and improve the criminal justice system.”

SB 448 is co-sponsored by the Pacific Juvenile Defender Center and Fresh Lifelines for Youth and is supported by a broad coalition of youth justice organizations. SB 762 is supported by the California Public Defenders Association. Both bills now head to the Assembly Appropriations Committee. Neither bill received opposition.

###

Senator Becker represents the 13th Senate District covering portions of Santa Clara and San Mateo counties and includes the cities of Atherton, Belmont, Brisbane, Burlingame, East Palo Alto, Foster City, Half Moon Bay, Hillsborough, Los Altos, Los Altos Hills, Menlo Park, Millbrae, Mountain View, Pacifica, Palo Alto, Redwood City, San Bruno, San Carlos, San Mateo, South San Francisco, and Woodside.

Office Information

Capitol Office

1021 O Street, Suite 6520 Sacramento, CA 95814 Phone: (916) 651-4013 Fax: (916) 651-4913

District Office

3525 Alameda de las Pulgas Menlo Park, CA 94025 Phone: (650) 233-2724

Social Media

California State Senate | Democratic Caucus © 2023 | Privacy Policy | Accessibility Statement

September 8, 2025

August 28, 2025

August 19, 2025

July 28, 2025

Assembly Panel Unanimously Approves Two Public Safety Bills Authored by Senator Becker

Statement from Bay Area Caucus on Preserving the $750 Million Bay Area Transit Bridge Loan

Creating Change – August 2025

Is California on Track for 2030?

Creating Change – July 2025