For Immediate Release

SACRAMENTO – Legislation by State Senator Josh Becker to advance equity in education, creation of affordable housing and efforts by small cities to jointly pursue big road projects gained ground in the Assembly this week.

The Digital Education Equity Program , SB 767

The Assembly Education Committee passed Senator Becker’s Senate Bill 767 to help close the digital divide in K-12 schools. While the technology that enhances in-person and distance learning has advanced rapidly, educators in many schools lack access to sufficient information and professional development to cost-effectively plan for, select and implement technology that supports instruction.

“The transition to distance learning during the pandemic exposed and exacerbated these stark inequities among school districts in our communities,” said Senator Becker, D-Peninsula.

SB 767 helps level the playing field by establishing the Digital Education Equity Program, DEEP, to equitably provide education technology, network and professional development support to all California public school districts.

The legislation directs the Department of Education, which will work in consultation with the State Board of Education, and the County Offices of Education to phase in the planning and implementation of DEEP so that the education stakeholders can provide mutual input in establishing guidelines and criteria for the new program.

“This is an important step toward closing the digital divide in California schools,” Senator Becker said.

SB 767 now heads to the Assembly Appropriations Committee for consideration.

Affordable Intergenerational Housing , SB 591

On Tuesday, the Assembly Judiciary Committee unanimously passed SB 591, which would eliminate the legal loophole that has impeded financing for affordable housing accommodating senior citizens and transition-age foster youth.

Studies show that intergenerational housing helps address the isolation and depression often suffered by seniors and provides an environment that supports socialization and transitioning of youth who are trying to establish their lives as adults. However, the financing mechanism most used for developing affordable housing senior housing in California – state tax credits – effectively prohibits inclusion of affordable housing units for others in the same building.

Senator Becker described how current law has stymied a Bay Area project.

“The City of Emeryville has proposed an intergenerational housing project for their community that is 100% affordable and would include 68 units for seniors and transition aged youth. But there’s a problem,” Senator Becker told the Assembly Judiciary Committee. “Affordable housing projects for seniors that use tax credits – which is nearly all such projects – are prohibited from including other types of affordable units in the same building.”

SB 591 would remedy the problem by allowing affordable intergenerational housing projects to be financed by tax credits – provided that at least 80% of the units are occupied by seniors and up to 20% of the units are for transition age youth.

Enabling Small Cities to Partner on Road Projects, SB 640

The Assembly Transportation Committee unanimously passed SB 640 on Monday, sending the legislation to Assembly Appropriations Committee for review.

Inspired by the city of Belmont, SB 640 authorizes local governments to jointly sponsor local street and road projects funded by the Road Repair and Accountability Act, SB 1 in 2017.

SB 640 enables small cities to pool their SB 1 dollars to bid jointly for a project involving a thoroughfare that runs through multiple jurisdictions. Teaming up on such projects saves local governments time and money by avoiding delays and piecemeal road improvements.

“Sometimes a small change can make a big difference for communities,” said Senator Becker. “SB 640 would make a common-sense change that would help small cities throughout California optimize their SB 1 dollars while taking care of the roads that serve their communities and their neighbors.”

###

Media Contact: Leslie Guevarra, leslie.guevarra@sen.ca.gov , 415-298-3404

Office Information

Capitol Office

1021 O Street, Suite 6520 Sacramento, CA 95814 Phone: (916) 651-4013 Fax: (916) 651-4913

District Office

3525 Alameda de las Pulgas Menlo Park, CA 94025 Phone: (650) 233-2724

Social Media

California State Senate | Democratic Caucus © 2023 | Privacy Policy | Accessibility Statement

September 8, 2025

August 28, 2025

August 19, 2025

July 28, 2025

Becker Bills to Help Bridge Education’s Digital Divide, Spur Creation of Intergenerational Housing and Enable Small Cities to Tackle Big Road Projects Move Ahead in Assembly

Statement from Bay Area Caucus on Preserving the $750 Million Bay Area Transit Bridge Loan

Creating Change – August 2025

Is California on Track for 2030?

Creating Change – July 2025