For Immediate Release

Contact: Elisa.Rivera@sen.ca.gov (559) 264-3070

BELOVED SURVIVORS TRAUMA RECOVERY CENTER NAMED 2023 NONPROFIT OF THE YEAR FOR SENATE DISTRICT 14

(Merced) On June 7, 2023, Senator Anna M. Caballero honored Fresno/Madera based Beloved Survivors Trauma Recovery Center (BSTRC) as the 2023 California Nonprofit of the Year for Senate District 14. This is the eighth year of the California Nonprofit of the Year initiative, a statewide effort honoring the critical role nonprofit organizations play in California.

Beloved Survivors Trauma Recovery Center (BSTRC) formed in the summer of 2020 during the peak of the pandemic. Founder, Tina Rodriguez is herself a survivor from the Central Valley. Tina’s mission, determined to make a difference for underserved victims, prioritizes the needs of those most impacted. Her vision focuses on providing the much-needed gaps in services that survivors often lack.

Today BSTRC operates safe housing, support services, restorative justice programs and mental health treatment. BSTRC is committed to the empowerment of survivors of violence and prioritizes trauma recovery through culturally diverse therapy and systems-change advocacy. BSTRC also promotes equity by providing immigration evaluations, trauma informed therapy, individual sessions, family sessions, grief & loss support groups, assistance with systems navigation, safety planning, rights and access advocacy, assistance with restraining orders, legal advocacy, and outreach.

Survivors that seek her help have experienced more than one type of victimization and struggle with fear of deportation, exploitation, homelessness, and mental health. BSTRC provides a safe space for them to have immediate services to aid in recovery.

The decision to leave an abusive relationship is scary, and can be dangerous. Navigating options is overwhelming. Beloved Survivors Trauma Recovery Center gives survivors hope and the tools to heal, thrive and overcome. It was my honor to recognize the life-changing work that they do for survivors in the Central Valley. Thank you! –Senator Anna M. Caballero, Senate District 14

“We share a vision to create a model that embedded human rights within victim services. We shifted our approach from fighting oppression to building equity. Beloved Survivors, has mastered the art of ‘craft your presence and your purpose will always be visible.’ Thank you, Senator Caballero for recognizing the work that we do to help survivors." –Tina Rodriguez, Founder

“When anyone talks about delivering meals to seniors, inspiring with music, protecting fresh water, educating children, championing the disadvantaged, speaking out for human rights, caring for animals,  they are talking about work that nonprofits do,” noted Jan Masaoka, CEO of the California Association of Nonprofits (CalNonprofits), which serves as a partner for this awards program. “California Nonprofit of the Year gives elected leaders the opportunity to shine a light on what nonprofits are accomplishing for the people in their districts and for everyone to appreciate the collective impact of nonprofits across our state.”

For interviews or inquiries, please contact: Elisa Rivera at 209-726-5495

Senator Anna M. Caballero represents the 14 th Senate District, composed of majority portions of Merced, Fresno and Madera Counties.

* Senator Anna M. Caballero serves as the Interim Representative for the Salinas Valley and San Benito County until 2024 when a newly elected Senator will assume the district

Office Information

Capitol

Office

1021 O Street, Suite 7620

Sacramento, CA 95814

Phone: (916) 651-4014

Fresno

District Office

2550 Mariposa Mall, Suite 2016

Fresno, CA 93721

Phone: (559) 264-3070

Merced

510 West Main Street, Suite E

Merced, CA 95340

Phone: (209) 726-5495

California State Senate | Democratic Caucus © | Privacy Policy | Accessibility Statement