SACRAMENTO —In a major milestone for the community of Del Norte, Senate President pro Tempore Mike McGuire and Assemblymember Chris Rogers announced a $40 million investment approved by the California Transportation Commission today to jumpstart the design phase of the long-awaited Last Chance Grade Project.

For decades, a 3-mile segment of Highway 101, just south of Crescent City, has been in a losing battle with the elements—with some of the most geologically unstable soil on earth crumbling, sliding, and washing away during heavy winter storms. As the lifeline that connects Del Norte County to rest of the state, this decades-long repair project is a critical economic investment for the North Coast.

Today’s $40 million state allocation, which will kick off the design phase of the project, builds upon the $50 million Senator McGuire already fought to secure to successfully complete the project’s environmental review. The state’s massive investment today marks a pivotal step toward a permanent fix for the landslide-prone section of highway.

Caltrans District 1 will now formally begin designing a new 6,000 foot tunnel that will bypass the unstable stretch of earth entirely, realigning Highway 101, and delivering the long-term solution this region has waited decades for. Once complete, it will be the longest tunnel in the state.

“Four words sum it up: It’s about damn time. This $40 million is a turning point for the project and will formally kick off the design phase of the 6,000 ft. tunnel through Last Chance Grade, finally delivering the secure route on Highway 101 that the North Coast deserves,” Pro Tem Mike McGuire (D-North Coast) said. “We’re so grateful for the partnership with city, county, and tribal leaders, local environmental groups, and the California Transportation Commission, who continue to work together to make the North Coast stronger and more disaster-ready for decades to come.” “The restoration of the Last Chance Grade corridor doesn’t just provide more reliable transportation for this area, it also supports economic resilience and ensures our communities maintain access to essential services, even during emergencies,” said Assemblymember Chris Rogers (D-Santa Rosa). “I want to give a big thank you to Pro Tem McGuire and Congressman Huffman for their partnership in securing this $40 million down payment for connection and reliability in Del Norte County.”

“Four words sum it up: It’s about damn time. This $40 million is a turning point for the project and will formally kick off the design phase of the 6,000 ft. tunnel through Last Chance Grade, finally delivering the secure route on Highway 101 that the North Coast deserves,” Pro Tem Mike McGuire (D-North Coast) said. “We’re so grateful for the partnership with city, county, and tribal leaders, local environmental groups, and the California Transportation Commission, who continue to work together to make the North Coast stronger and more disaster-ready for decades to come.”

“The restoration of the Last Chance Grade corridor doesn’t just provide more reliable transportation for this area, it also supports economic resilience and ensures our communities maintain access to essential services, even during emergencies,” said Assemblymember Chris Rogers (D-Santa Rosa). “I want to give a big thank you to Pro Tem McGuire and Congressman Huffman for their partnership in securing this $40 million down payment for connection and reliability in Del Norte County.”

Senator McGuire, alongside a powerful coalition of North Coast and tribal leaders and environmental groups, has been a driving force for the Last Chance Grade Improvement Project for the past ten years, securing historic state and federal investments to move the project forward. For more information about the Last Chance Grade Project, visit LastChanceGrade.com .

###

Mike McGuire is President pro Tempore of the California Senate. He represents the North Coast of California, which stretches from the Golden Gate Bridge to the Oregon border, including Del Norte, Trinity, Humboldt, Lake, Mendocino, Sonoma, and Marin Counties. Website of Senate Leader McGuire: https://sd02.senate.ca.gov/

Office Information

1021 O Street, Suite 8518 Sacramento, CA 95814 Phone: (916) 651-4002

California State Senate | Democratic Caucus © | Privacy Policy | Accessibility Statement

Big Win for Del Norte: $40 Million State Investment Propels Last Chance Grade Project Forward