SB 362 Will Let Californians Take Control of Their Personal Information and Require Data Brokers to Delete Data

(SACRAMENTO) – Today, the California Assembly sent to the Governor’s Office Senate Bill No. 362, also known as The DELETE Act, by Senator Josh Becker (D-Menlo Park). SB 362 would create a one-stop-shop website to allow Californians who want to control access to their personal information to hit the “DELETE” button when it comes to a data broker’s ability to collect, maintain and sell information on them.

“Today’s vote by the full Assembly signals that California is taking seriously the need to restore the ability of consumers to control their own personal data from unknown third party data brokers,” said Senator Becker . “Data brokers possess thousands of data points on each and every one of us, and they currently have the ability to use this data related to reproductive healthcare, geolocation, and purchasing data to sell it to the highest bidder. The DELETE Act would protect our most sensitive information.”

Data brokers collect, analyze, and sell personal information about consumers, aggregating data from public records, social media platforms, online transactions, and much more to create detailed profiles on millions of people. Data brokers have to register with the California Attorney General, but they don’t have to report what kinds of information they collect and sell.  Under the California Consumer Privacy Act (CCPA), you have a right to require a data broker to delete information they collected directly from you, but you can’t require a broker to delete information they may have acquired about you from other sources.

SB 362 has a simple premise:

Data brokers would have to register with the California Privacy Protection Agency (CPPA) and disclose the types of personal information they collect.

The CPPA would create a simple way for Californians to direct all data brokers to delete their personal information, free of charge.

Data brokers that fail to adhere to the law would face civil penalties and administrative fines set by the CPPA.

The bill has the support of the California Attorney General, privacy rights and consumer rights organizations, and Planned Parenthood. It now heads to the Senate for a final vote before heading to the Governor’s desk for a signature.

###

Senator Becker represents the 13th Senate District covering portions of Santa Clara and San Mateo counties and includes the cities of Atherton, Belmont, Brisbane, Burlingame, East Palo Alto, Foster City, Half Moon Bay, Hillsborough, Los Altos, Los Altos Hills, Menlo Park, Millbrae, Mountain View, Pacifica, Palo Alto, Redwood City, San Bruno, San Carlos, San Mateo, South San Francisco, and Woodside.

Office Information

Capitol Office

1021 O Street, Suite 6520 Sacramento, CA 95814 Phone: (916) 651-4013 Fax: (916) 651-4913

District Office

3525 Alameda de las Pulgas Menlo Park, CA 94025 Phone: (650) 233-2724

Social Media

California State Senate | Democratic Caucus © 2023 | Privacy Policy | Accessibility Statement

September 8, 2025

August 28, 2025

August 19, 2025

July 28, 2025

California Assembly Votes to Advance Senator Becker’s Delete Act

Statement from Bay Area Caucus on Preserving the $750 Million Bay Area Transit Bridge Loan

Creating Change – August 2025

Is California on Track for 2030?

Creating Change – July 2025