SILICON VALLEY - In an area where the wealth gap between the haves and the have nots could not be more pronounced, more than 50 local, community organizations came together today on a rainy day and provided everything from information on housing, food and mental health to dental & health screenings, flu shots, bike repairs and showers to hundreds of unhoused people attending Senator Cortese’s annual Unhoused Health Fair.

“Today’s Unhoused Health Fair was a great example of how our community organizations lift each other up and help one another for the greater good of people who often cannot help themselves,” said California State Senator Dave Cortese (D-Silicon Valley) who has sponsored the Health Fair for 14 years. “Locally is where our residents can do the most good and I thank our community partners and volunteers for banding together and giving their time, resources and energy to make the event happen.”

The health fair came on the heels of Santa Clara County’s Point-In-Time count that will determine the latest number of unhoused people – a number standing at 10,000 according to Santa Clara County and Destination Home reports.

Today there were several speakers at the Unhoused Health Fair’s news conference held by Senator Cortese.

“The core mission of Catholic Charities of Santa Clara County is to serve and advocate for individuals and families in poverty. Co-hosting the Unhoused Health Fair for 14 years is an important way to educate the public and offer direct access to services to our unhoused brothers and sisters.” said Don Taylor, CEO of Catholic Charities of Santa Clara County. “Now more than ever we believe working together, as a community, can change lives for good.”

“Our efforts include funding affordable housing, developing and operating interim housing – we have six Emergency Interim Housing sites in use and several more in development. We are creating and managing safe parking sites, helping fund the countywide Homelessness Prevention System, operating overnight warming locations, providing basic needs to residents living in encampments, reconnecting homeless residents with family members and more” said Omar Passons, deputy city manager of the City of San Jose.

"Since the inception of the free Unhoused Health Fair, sponsored by State Senator Dave Cortese, our “Healthcare for the Homeless” has participated as a resource. This year our care team provided free flu shots, blood pressure checks, and body mass index table service, to support the health and well-being of our community's unhoused population," said Rafael Vaquerano, President & CEO of Gardner Health Services.

“This is all about bringing  the community together, showing solidarity and hope to those who are struggling,’’ said Olivia Cane, peer outreach coordinator for the Lived Experience Advisory Board of Silicon Valley.

Many organizations participating today include:

Bay Area Community Health will provide free dental screenings

Milpitas Executives Lions Club will provide free vision screenings

The County of Santa Clara’s Public Health Department will be providing free rapid HIV screenings and Substance Use Treatment Harm Reduction services

Community Cycles of California will be providing free bike repairs

Gardner Health Services will be providing free flu shots, blood pressure checks, and Body Mass Index table service

Martha’s Kitchen will provide free warm breakfast and lunch

Bill Wilson Center, HomeFIRST of Santa Clara County, Abode Services, Destination: Home, and Lived Experience Advisory Board will be providing housing resources for those experiencing homelessness.

The California Department of Motor Vehicles (DMV) will be offering and processing No Fee ID application requests

The County of Santa Clara’s Office of the Public Defender will be providing free record clearances, record reductions, deletion of fines and fees, warrant recalls, and 290 removals.

Opening Doors Silicon Valley will be providing free gently used coats and jackets

Community SEVA will distribute free backpacks with winter outdoor essentials such as a warm blanket, gloves, beanies, and male and female hygiene products

Bay Area Community Health along Pathways Society will be offering free Substance Use Treatment resources

###

Office Information

Capitol Office

1021 O Street Suite 7520 Sacramento, CA 95814

Phone: (916) 651-4015 Fax: (916) 651-4915

San Jose Office

1155 Meridian Avenue Suite 100 San Jose, CA 95125

Phone: (408) 723-4154 Fax: (408) 723-4159

California State Senate | Democratic Caucus © 2025 | Privacy Policy | Accessibility Statement

California State Senator Dave Cortese’s Annual Unhoused Health Fair Draws Hundreds As Number of Homeless Grows