The Powering Up California Act requires Utilities to End Delays to Upgrading Distribution Infrastructure

SACRAMENTO, CA —The California Legislature today approved SB 410 by State Senator Josh Becker (D- Menlo Park) , which holds utilities like PG&E accountable for upgrading distribution systems to ensure that California’s grid continues to sustain our transition from carbon to clean energy.

California is suffering from an unacceptable and unnecessary backlog of interconnections. As more homes and businesses are built, and as they switch over to climate-friendly electric appliances, the upgrades needed to the electricity distribution system continue – and will continue – to grow. The current backlog in distribution improvements can range anywhere from six months to one year in some areas of the state. This bill, also known as The Powering Up California Act, addresses this backlog by requiring utilities like PG&E to accelerate improvements to the electric grid and improve the capacity of energy distribution so that households and small businesses can connect their clean energy appliances to the grid.

“I have received many complaints from people in my district and throughout the state where they are forced to wait many months, sometimes even a year, to upgrade and connect their clean energy home appliances,” said Senator Becker . “This unreasonable delay in upgrading our grid undermines California’s clean energy goals and prevents Californians from utilizing climate-friendly home appliances like EV chargers and solar panels. The Powering Up California Act forces utilities to accelerate improvements and closes this unacceptable gap.”

SB 410 requires the Public Utilities Commission to improve existing delays in interconnections, as well as plan for future ones. It is supported by a broad and diverse coalition, including the Natural Resources Defense Council, The League of California Cities, the California Chamber of Commerce, the Bay Area Council, Sierra Club, Environment California, and Silicon Valley Clean Energy. It now heads to the Governor’s office for a signature.

###

Senator Becker represents the 13th Senate District covering portions of Santa Clara and San Mateo counties and includes the cities of Atherton, Belmont, Brisbane, Burlingame, East Palo Alto, Foster City, Half Moon Bay, Hillsborough, Los Altos, Los Altos Hills, Menlo Park, Millbrae, Mountain View, Pacifica, Palo Alto, Redwood City, San Bruno, San Carlos, San Mateo, South San Francisco, and Woodside.

Office Information

Capitol Office

1021 O Street, Suite 6520 Sacramento, CA 95814 Phone: (916) 651-4013 Fax: (916) 651-4913

District Office

3525 Alameda de las Pulgas Menlo Park, CA 94025 Phone: (650) 233-2724

Social Media

California State Senate | Democratic Caucus © 2023 | Privacy Policy | Accessibility Statement

September 8, 2025

August 28, 2025

August 19, 2025

July 28, 2025

California Legislature Approves Senator Becker’s Legislation to Hold Utilities Like PG&E Accountable

Statement from Bay Area Caucus on Preserving the $750 Million Bay Area Transit Bridge Loan

Creating Change – August 2025

Is California on Track for 2030?

Creating Change – July 2025