Newsletter: Sign Up For The Latest Updates

SACRAMENTO, CA – In response to a rise in hate, California lawmakers are turning their attention to gaps in Holocaust and genocide education in the state’s schools. Today, Senator Henry Stern (SD27 – Los Angeles) introduced SB 472, a bill aimed at addressing these gaps. The bill will implement two key recommendations from a statewide study: providing direct funding to school districts to teach this critical material, and establishing a system to monitor and evaluate educational outcomes.

This initiative follows the release of a groundbreaking report by Governor Gavin Newsom and the Governor’s Council on Holocaust and Genocide Education. The report, titled "Holocaust and Genocide Education in California: A Study of Statewide Context and Local Implementation," explores the state of education across California and seeks to equip educators and students with the tools necessary to confront hate, bigotry, and misinformation, while fostering empathy and resilience. Governor Newsom established the Governor’s Council on Holocaust and Genocide Education to identify instructional resources to address these issues.

“In California, hate is unacceptable, and the shocking decline in awareness among young people about the Holocaust and other acts of genocide is especially alarming. I was proud to establish the Council on Holocaust and Genocide Education and grateful for their work on this comprehensive report. I look forward to reviewing the Council’s recommendations and ensuring that California continues to be a beacon for tolerance, empathy, and education,” said Governor Gavin Newsom in a January public statement.

Of the 143 school districts that responded to this study (most didn’t), only 26% have programs for Holocaust or genocide education. The gap is both rural (24%) a nd urban (31%), leaving a concerning hole in both liberal and conservative communities for internet disinformation and antisemitism to spread.

“Eighty years ago, Auschwitz was liberated, today, most young Americans have never heard of such a place.” Senator Stern noted, “ We have a blind spot in our education system when it comes to Holocaust and genocide education.”

Over the last two years, Senator Stern committed to expanding Holocaust and genocide education throughout California schools. He has joined forces with California Attorney General Rob Bonta, State Superintendent of Public Instruction Tony Thurmond, and the California Legislative Jewish Caucus to champion this cause.

“The California Department of Education is on the right track,” Stern remarked, highlighting efforts by the department to collaborate with local groups to increase awareness and education. “Thanks to our legislative leaders and Governor’s leadership in funding the Teacher’s Collaborative, we now have a place educators can go to develop the skills and support they need to bring Holocaust education back to life in California classrooms.”

Voices Driving Change Across CA Schools SB 1277 , has already hosted 1500+ teachers and administrators since its inception in 2021. The recent legislation, along with an initial public investment of $2 million (21-22 budget), $1.5 million (23-24 budget), and 5 million (24-25 budget), aims to reach 1 million students by training 8400 teachers by 2029 and 1,062,500 students by the end of the decade.

State Investment and Support

Recommendations for Strengthening Education

For more information on the report and its findings, read the full study HERE .

Office Information

Capitol Office

1021 O Street, Suite 7710 Sacramento, CA 95814 Phone: (916) 651-4027 Fax: (916) 651-4927

District Office

14724 Ventura Blvd., Suite 1115 Sherman Oaks, CA  91403 Phone: (818) 876-3352 Fax: (818) 876-0802