For Immediate Release

Contact:

(Caballero) Luis.Quinonez@sen.ca.gov - 916-651-4014

(Soria) Alexis.Manzanilla@asm.ca.gov - (916) 319-2027

The Central Valley secures $120 million in vital funding for flood recovery and restoration along with affordable student housing at UC Merced and Merced College

Joint partnership between Senator Caballero and Assemblywoman Soria has resulted in major support for the region.

SACRAMENTO – Senator Anna Caballero (D-Merced) and Assemblywoman Esmeralda Soria (D-Merced) are proud to announce that Senate District 14/Assembly District 27 have jointly worked to provide $20 million in much needed funding to support the recovery and restoration of the Planada community. In addition, their joint collaboration with UC Merced and Merced College has resulted in $100 million in full funding for an innovative student housing project which will provide the opportunity for students to live on campus to continue their higher education at Merced College and UC Merced.

Merced County has recently faced several emergency situations, including devastating flooding which impacted the unincorporated community of Planada in January of this year. Fortunately, due to Senator Caballero and Assemblywoman Soria’s partnership with district organizations like Valley Onward, UC Merced, and the Leadership Counsel for Justice & Accountability, the district will receive $20 million for Planada Flood Recovery . As addressed by the Planada Community Needs Assessment authored by UC Merced Community & Labor Center in April, this level of funding will serve to address the financial loss caused by the floods: vehicle damage, home remediation, damaged furniture and appliances.

The UC Merced Disaster Response: The Planada Flood, Federal Policy Gaps and Unmet Community Needs report states: “While a large proportion of Planada’s population is non-citizen and likely undocumented – and therefore may be ineligible for Unemployment Insurance and federal disaster aid – state-level reforms addressing these two issues goes a long way in closing the gaps in existing federal disaster response.”

The California State Budget also includes $100 million for the Promise Housing Initiative , an affordable housing project. Promise Housing will be a part of the Merced Promise transfer program, which helps Merced College students transfer to UC Merced. UC Merced and Merced College will receive $50 million each to ensure  affordable housing at UC Merced, with a rate of $596 per bed. Promise Housing will become the first and only Intersegmental Affordable Student Housing Facility in the San Joaquin Valley.

“I am grateful to Governor Newsom and his team for their support of our community. The partnership with Assemblywoman Soria has thus far resulted in the creation of the distressed hospital loan program, funding to help the recovery and restoration of the Planada community, and more housing for our students attending Merced College and UC Merced,” said Senator Caballero. “I look forward to our continued collaboration to ensure a bright future for the Central Valley.”

“I am grateful to the governor for prioritizing the needs of the Central Valley through the California State Budget this year,” said Assemblywoman Soria. “I hope that our rural Central Valley communities continue to receive much-needed resources and funding.”

###

For interviews or inquiries, please contact:

Luis.Quinonez@sen.ca.gov at 916-651-4014 (Senator Caballero)

Alexis.Manzanilla@asm.ca.gov (916) 319-2027 (Assemblywoman Soria)

Senator Anna M. Caballero represents the 14 th Senate District, composed of majority portions of Merced, Fresno and Madera Counties.

* Senator Anna M. Caballero serves as the Interim Representative for the Salinas Valley and San Benito County until 2024 when a newly elected Senator will assume the district

Assemblywoman Esmeralda Soria represents the 27th Assembly District which includes communities in Fresno, Madera, and Merced counties.

Office Information

Capitol

Office

1021 O Street, Suite 7620

Sacramento, CA 95814

Phone: (916) 651-4014

Fresno

District Office

2550 Mariposa Mall, Suite 2016

Fresno, CA 93721

Phone: (559) 264-3070

Merced

510 West Main Street, Suite E

Merced, CA 95340

Phone: (209) 726-5495

California State Senate | Democratic Caucus © | Privacy Policy | Accessibility Statement