Senator Dave Cortese (D-Silicon Valley) has introduced SB 1297 to continue his innovative work on climate restoration.

Cortese is working with stakeholders from environmental justice groups, labor, and industry to craft a plan for California to not only adapt to, but to reverse climate change.

“It’s part of a movement to restore our climate,” says Senator Cortese.

“SB 1297 is a vital opportunity for California to chart a global path forward in climate restoration. Removing carbon from our building and construction materials and using them to sequester carbon can be done safely, permanently, and economically – with an incredibly high impact.”

In Santa Clara County, Cortese led the charge to declare a countywide “ climate restoration emergency that demands immediate action to halt, reverse, restore and address the consequences and causes of global warming " and on Earth Day’s 50th Anniversary, along with Earth Day Network, and the Foundation for Climate Restoration, launched a local governments campaign that called on all cities and counties to adopt climate restoration. For this work, he was highlighted as the only elected official to address the first annual Climate Restoration Forum at the United Nations Headquarters in New York City which led into the 74th Session of the U.N. General Assembly.

He says he’s taking this mission statewide through SB 1297 that will help California lead on climate restoration, a critical third pillar of climate action alongside mitigation and adaptation. Storing carbon in the built environment will enable net-negative emissions to help draw down atmospheric carbon dioxide levels, which provides additional climate benefits above and beyond California’s efforts to rapidly and completely transition to clean energy. This bill will complement additional state efforts to transition to clean energy.

SB 1297 calls on the state to develop a strategic plan to advance carbon reduction across all building and construction materials and maximize carbon sequestration. Notably, this would greatly expand the reach of our state’s current embodied carbon reduction goals and include materials such as cement, concrete, aggregate, lumber, cross-laminated timber, steel, and more.

SB 1297 would require stakeholder input and for state agencies to develop plans, accounting frameworks, and otherwise encourage the use of building materials where feasible with low or negative embodied carbon emissions, to help maximize the level of carbon sequestration in the built environment.

As stated in SB 1297, California uses enough aggregate, concrete, and other building materials that it could store all carbon emissions from major industrial sources in the built environment.

"I applaud Sen. Cortese's vision and leadership in helping California to incorporate climate restoration solutions into the state’s building and construction projects," said Rick Wayman, CEO of the Foundation for Climate Restoration. "Policies like SB 1297 have the potential to remove significant amounts of carbon dioxide from the atmosphere, which is what must happen if we are to stop climate change and ensure that we leave a habitable planet for future generations."

SB 1297 follows on an announcement at the recent 2021 United Nations Climate Change Conference in Glasgow, Scotland from the Pacific Coast Collaborative, that partnering jurisdictions – including California – will work to accelerate innovation, investment and market development for low carbon materials. It also comes on the heels of this week’s announcement by the Biden Administration regarding new actions to advance the production and use of low carbon building materials made in America and guidance on the responsible deployment of carbon capture, utilization and sequestration to help achieve a carbon neutral economy.

SB 596 (Senator Becker, Signed into Law in 2021) established the intent of the Legislature to attain net-zero or net-negative emissions of greenhouse gases from the cement and concrete sector.

Senator Cortese was a principal co-author of SB 582 (Senator Henry Stern, 2021), The Climate Emergency Mitigation, Safe Restoration, and Just Resilience Act of 2021, that focused on carbon removal leadership and authored a suite of bills around greenhouse gas reduction through building energy use.

Office Information

Capitol Office

1021 O Street Suite 7520 Sacramento, CA 95814

Phone: (916) 651-4015 Fax: (916) 651-4915

San Jose Office

1155 Meridian Avenue Suite 100 San Jose, CA 95125

Phone: (408) 723-4154 Fax: (408) 723-4159

California State Senate | Democratic Caucus © 2025 | Privacy Policy | Accessibility Statement

Cortese’s Groundbreaking Low Carbon Construction Bill Aims for Climate Restoration