SILICON VALLEY – At San Jose’s Mount Pleasant Elementary School, surrounded by education and community leaders, California State Senator Dave Cortese today unveiled Senate Bill 743 to reverse an antiquated 1978 funding formula that has created winners and losers in the public education system for the last 45 years.

“This bill is about equalization and reversing the consequences of past mistakes,” said Senator Cortese. “The bill would establish an education endowment using general fund money to equalize per pupil spending in districts throughout California.”

Districts that receive more property tax revenues give students more resources and educational opportunities than districts that receive less property tax distributions. Historically unfair property tax formulas determine per pupil spending.

“Better funding formulas mean better outcomes for all students – because every child deserves a quality education, no matter their zip code. The Education Equalization Endowment Act is a step toward this goal,” said Dr. Lisa Andrew, President and CEO of the Silicon Valley Education Foundation, who spoke at the news conference.

“By investing in all students, regardless of zip code, we invest in the future of our communities, workforce, and state. We must ensure that all students – no matter where they live – have the opportunities to learn, grow, and reach their full potential. The time to act is now,” said Dr. Elida MacArthur, Superintendent of the Mount Pleasant Elementary School District who spoke at the news conference.

Glenn Vander Zee, superintendent of the East Side Union High School District, said in East San Jose the school district aims for all its students to be full participants in Silicon Valley.

“Due to the current funding formula, students in the East Side are funded at levels significantly less than students just a 20-minute drive from their home school. While our students are asked to learn the same state standards, utilize the same approved textbooks, and meet the same entrance requirements for all students to the University of California system, they are not currently supported the same,” said Superintendent Vander Zee.

The Senate Education Committee will take action on Cortese’s Senate Bill 743 on Wednesday at 9 a.m. in Sacramento. You can watch Wednesday’s hearing by clicking on this link: Audio/TV | Senate Education Committee

###

Office Information

Capitol Office

1021 O Street Suite 7520 Sacramento, CA 95814

Phone: (916) 651-4015 Fax: (916) 651-4915

San Jose Office

1155 Meridian Avenue Suite 100 San Jose, CA 95125

Phone: (408) 723-4154 Fax: (408) 723-4159

California State Senate | Democratic Caucus © 2025 | Privacy Policy | Accessibility Statement

Education and Community Leaders Rally Around  Senator Cortese’s Education Equalization Bill