SACRAMENTO, CA – Eight bills authored by Senator Bob Archuleta (D-Pico Rivera) and passed by the California Legislature to address issues ranging from veterans affairs to public safety have been signed into law by Governor Newsom.

“I applaud the Newsom administration for signing eight of my bills into law that will improve public and professional safety, increase the number of zero emission sites available to hydrogen fuel cell vehicles, and help support the households of active duty military servicemembers. From best practices when handling lead paint during renovation work, to my ongoing efforts as Chair of the Hydrogen Energy Committee making transportation healthier, safer and better for all Californians, I am proud to have delivered a diverse range of legislative wins. ”

The eight bills are summarized below:

SB 277 – Fireworks: dangerous fireworks: seizure: management: provides the California Department of Forestry and Fire Protection’s (CAL FIRE’s) Office of the State Fire Marshal (OSFM) the authority to manage – instead of only dispose of – illegal fireworks.

SB 950 – Vet Cal Fresh: requires the State Department of Social Services to submit a request to the United States Department of Agriculture to exclude the basic allowance for housing for members of a uniformed service from countable income in the calculation of CalFresh eligibility.

SB 954 – Operating Engineers Database: requires the Department of Industrial Relations to establish a database of electronic-Certified Payroll Records that will lead to increased labor compliance and save taxpayer dollars.

SB 984 – CALANGUS – Military Leave: allows state employees who are members of the National Guard to use military leave if called to active military duty and active emergency military duty for the first thirty calendar days of such active service.

SB 1076 – Lead Paint Conformity: requires, among other things, the State Department of Public Health, to conform California’s program regulating lead-related construction work to the United States Environmental Protection Agency’s Lead Renovation, Repair, and Painting Rule.

SB 1111 – Best Safety Act: requires a person or entity who sells or provides a trash receptacle or storage container that meets certain size criteria to mark the receptacle or container with a reflective marking on each side.

SB 1291 – Hydrogen Permitting: requires local governments to expand their existing administrative approval process for the permitting of zero emission vehicle infrastructure to include hydrogen-fueling infrastructure and allows for denials of those permits based only on health or safety impacts.

SB 1428 – Board of Psychology Tech: creates a new category of registered mental health professional, psychological testing technicians, to meet the growing need for psychological and neuropsychological services while protecting consumers and payers.

“In addition to these bills and legislation I will be working on in the future, I remain committed to ensuring that the state’s budget delivers meaningful fiscal relief to working families, continued funding to address veteran mental health and suicide prevention, while also ensuring our children’s schools receive sufficient funding.”

Senator Bob Archuleta represents the 32nd Senate District, which includes portions of Los Angeles County and Orange County. He is Chair of the Senate Committee on Military and Veterans Affairs, Chair of the Select Committee on Hydrogen Energy, and member of the Senate Select Committee on California, Armenia and Artsakh Mutual Trade, Art and Cultural Exchange. Website of Senator Bob Archuleta: https://sd32.senate.ca.gov/

###

Office Information

Capitol Office

1021 O Street, Suite 6620

Sacramento, CA 95814

Phone: (916) 651-4030

District Office

12501 Imperial Hwy. Ste. 110

Norwalk, CA 90650

Phone: (562) 406-1001

California State Senate | Democratic Caucus © 2025 | Privacy Policy | Accessibility Statement