Governor Gavin Newsom announced today that he has signed into law a bill by Senator Dave Cortese to secure the first-ever statewide bargaining agreement for minor league baseball players. The new law, Senate Bill (SB) 332, ensures a historic collective bargaining agreement for minor league baseball, guaranteeing better wages and benefits for more than 360 California minor league players, such as housing, health care, and compensation, including in the regular season, spring training, and the off-season.

“SB 332 seals a historic collective bargaining agreement between baseball clubs and minor league players. For the very first time, minor league players will enjoy the protection of a collective bargaining agreement, guaranteeing improved pay and working conditions,” said Senator Cortese (D-San Jose). “I thank Governor Newsom, the Major League Baseball Players Association and Major League Baseball. We came together and hit this one out of the park.”

“We thank Senator Cortese for his leadership in spearheading the unanimous passage of legislation aimed at protecting salary provisions collectively bargained by owners and players last March,” said MLB Deputy Commissioner Dan Halem . “We are pleased this legislation recognizes that both parties agreed in the successful collective bargaining process that being a minor league player is a unique occupation, and that players are not well-served by being classified as hourly workers.”

SB 332 is essential for carrying out a collective bargaining agreement that classifies minor league baseball players as salaried employees. The bill offers a limited exemption from state labor law, recognizing the distinct work of minor league baseball players, in order to align the collective bargaining agreement with California law. Both the collective bargaining agreement and the ensuing bill are expected to be a model for professional baseball in every state in the nation.

Senator Dave Cortese represents Senate District 15, which encompasses San Jose and much of Santa Clara County in the heart of Silicon Valley. Visit Senator Cortese’s website: https://sd15.senate.ca.gov

###

Office Information

Capitol Office

1021 O Street Suite 7520 Sacramento, CA 95814

Phone: (916) 651-4015 Fax: (916) 651-4915

San Jose Office

1155 Meridian Avenue Suite 100 San Jose, CA 95125

Phone: (408) 723-4154 Fax: (408) 723-4159

California State Senate | Democratic Caucus © 2025 | Privacy Policy | Accessibility Statement

Governor Signs Senator Cortese's Bill to Secure Historic Statewide Collective Bargaining Agreement for Minor League Baseball