Sacramento, CA – Governor Gavin Newsom has signed Senate Bill 1418 into law, approving a measure, which will bring parity to the electric vehicle permitting process by streamlining the administrative approval process for hydrogen fueling stations in the same way California currently does for battery electric charging stations. Specifically, SB 1418 mandates that cities and counties must adopt an ordinance and checklist that creates an expedited, streamlined permitting process for hydrogen-fueling stations. This expedited procedure will ensure that citizens have access to clean energy options without unnecessary administrative hurdles.

“SB 1418 transcends simple local ordinances or municipal concerns and rather addresses a statewide imperative,” said Senator Bob Archuleta (D-Pico Rivera). “California needs consistent permitting standards across all jurisdictions to ensure the prompt and cost-effective deployment of these critical zero emission fueling stations.”

Transportation remains the largest contributor of greenhouse gas and criteria pollutant emissions in California. Combating this to improve environmental and human health requires a massive transition from internal combustion engines to zero-emission drivetrains. The State of California is a national and international leader in this transition, and has recently been awarded up to $1.2 billion from the US Department of Energy to accelerate the development and deployment of clean renewable hydrogen. These federal funds secured by the Alliance for Renewable Clean Hydrogen Energy Systems (ARCHES) are intended to build or expand hydrogen projects that will power public transportation, heavy-duty trucks, port operations, and more. But, success hinges on rapidly scaling up hydrogen-fueling infrastructure and vehicle development. California cannot achieve its zero emission goals without success at the local level.

“SB 1418 underscores California’s legislative commitment to fostering zero-emission vehicle infrastructure while mitigating barriers to the installation of these hydrogen-fueling stations,” Archuleta said. “I thank Governor Newsom for his continued support of the hydrogen industry in California, and again thank him for approving this very important bill.”

Senator Bob Archuleta currently represents the 30th Senate District, which includes portions of Los Angeles County and Orange County. He is the Chair of the Senate Committee on Military and Veterans Affairs, and a member of the Business, Professions and Economic Development Committee, Governmental Organization Committee, Transportation Committee, as well as the Joint Legislative Committee on Emergency Management. Website of Senator Bob Archuleta: https://sd30.senate.ca.gov/ .

###

Office Information

Capitol Office

1021 O Street, Suite 6620

Sacramento, CA 95814

Phone: (916) 651-4030

District Office

12501 Imperial Hwy. Ste. 110

Norwalk, CA 90650

Phone: (562) 406-1001

California State Senate | Democratic Caucus © 2025 | Privacy Policy | Accessibility Statement