Senator Anna M. Caballero (SD 12) to work collaboratively once again with her colleagues in both houses to address the unprecedented housing crisis faced by millions of Californians

In August 2020, the Legislature passed and the Governor signed AB 3088, the Tenant, Homeowner, and Small Landlord Relief and Stabilization Act authored by Assemblymembers Chiu and Limon and Senators Caballero and Bradford. The bill established a statewide moratorium on evictions until January 31st, 2021 and extended the Homeowners Bill of Rights to small landlords.

As a result of continued unemployment and declining federal financial relief, California renters have struggled to make ends meet and cover their financial obligations. These economic hardships will undoubtedly continue due to COVID-19 well into 2021. SB 3, The Tenant, Homeowner, and Small Landlord Tenant Relief Act of 2021 would extend the protections through March 31st 2021.

“California renters are in crisis,” said Senator Caballero. “The fact that people may face eviction in the midst of a worldwide pandemic is alarming, and bold action must be a priority for the legislature. The Legislature has an obligation to protect renters from eviction by extending the moratorium provided by AB 3088 or there will be catastrophic consequences. We also need to support small landlords who are at risk of foreclosure. Everyone suffers- landlords and tenants, if this occurs.”

“The pandemic continues to threaten the wellbeing of  many small landlords,  tenants, and homeowners in California,” said Senator Bradford. “AB 3088 sought to stop the bleeding and bring relief to the most vulnerable through early 2021. The lack of  action by the federal government clearly justifies  an extension of that relief in some form. I look forward to working with Senator Caballero as we engage our colleagues and stakeholders to find the right steps forward for all Californians. Additionally, Senator Caballero recognizes that California continues to face an extreme housing crisis, as housing construction

and affordability challenges make it difficult for residents to find housing that meets their family’s needs. The Legislature has made it a priority to take creative action to address California’s low rate of homeownership and housing shortage.”

Large shopping malls, strip malls, and “big box” retail stores are facing a new reality: consumer’s needs are being met online. Many shopping centers have struggled to remain viable as large anchor stores like Sears, Toys “R” Us, and Kmart have closed brick and mortar locations throughout the state, especially in rural areas. Credit Suisse recently reported that up to 25% of malls across the nation are expected to close, and have seen the highest number of mall vacancies in the last seven years. SB 6, The Neighborhood Homes Act  authorizes local governments to approve  housing  development  on commercial retail and office spaces. Allowing mixed-use infill  development  on  existing  shopping  center or strip mall properties will help the state achieve its housing goals and spur economic activity in regions most in need of revitalization.

“This pandemic is ravaging the Latino farmworker community because of the lack of affordable housing. We have seen families double and triple up because that is what it takes to be able to afford rent. With SB 6, I imagine neighborhoods where you can live, shop, take care of your banking or insurance needs all within walking distance. Creating a walkable community that is affordable.” said Caballero

Senator Anna M. Caballero represents the 12 th Senate District, composed of the Salinas Valley, the Counties of Merced and San Benito and portions of Fresno, Madera and Stanislaus Counties.

###

Click here to view PDF

Office Information

Capitol

Office

1021 O Street, Suite 7620

Sacramento, CA 95814

Phone: (916) 651-4014

Fresno

District Office

2550 Mariposa Mall, Suite 2016

Fresno, CA 93721

Phone: (559) 264-3070

Merced

510 West Main Street, Suite E

Merced, CA 95340

Phone: (209) 726-5495

California State Senate | Democratic Caucus © | Privacy Policy | Accessibility Statement

Key Housing Legislation Introduced to Help Mitigate Impacts of the Coronavirus Pandemic: Tenant, Homeowner, and Small Landlord Relief Act of 2021 and the reintroduction of The Neighborhood Homes Act