The California Legislature passed Senator Cortese’s legislation on Friday that empowers veterinarians to delegate limited and specific tasks to registered veterinarian technicians to better serve Californians with their pets. The State Senate passed Senate Bill (SB) 669 on a concurrence vote Friday and the legislation advances to the Governor.

SB 669 would allow veterinary technicians to administer vaccines to pets as well as prophylactic treatments for internal and external parasites. Veterinary technicians, or vet techs, would only be allowed to perform these duties at the behest of a licensed veterinarian.

“Basic veterinary care is slipping out of reach for Californians. A growing scarcity of veterinarians is making it harder for lower-income residents to find care for their pets,” said Senator Cortese (D-San Jose). “My SB 669 will allow vet techs to take on some duties of regular veterinarians when a licensed vet gives permission. This bill will lower consumer costs, raise access to vet care, and place smiles on the faces of pets and their owners.”

Rising competition for veterinarians has caused nonprofits across California to scale down or shut down their low-cost or free vaccine clinics. Sixty percent of California's animal shelters and animal welfare groups report having vacant veterinary positions. Furthermore, 80% of shelters have faced challenges in consistently offering community care programs. This trend has disproportionally reduced pet healthcare for lower-income Californians. Meanwhile, unvaccinated pets pose a public health hazard as they are at risk of catching and transmitting rabies and canine parvovirus.

Registered vet techs are trained and licensed professionals who have completed two-year programs and passed national and state examination boards. SB 669 allows them to assume certain responsibilities in the service of underserved pet owners, and a stellar quality of care would continue under the watch of a licensed veterinarian.

Senator Dave Cortese represents Senate District 15, which encompasses San Jose and much of Santa Clara County in the heart of Silicon Valley. Visit Senator Cortese’s website: https://sd15.senate.ca.gov

###

Office Information

Capitol Office

1021 O Street Suite 7520 Sacramento, CA 95814

Phone: (916) 651-4015 Fax: (916) 651-4915

San Jose Office

1155 Meridian Avenue Suite 100 San Jose, CA 95125

Phone: (408) 723-4154 Fax: (408) 723-4159

California State Senate | Democratic Caucus © 2025 | Privacy Policy | Accessibility Statement

Legislature Passes Senator Cortese's Bill to Better Serve Doggies and Kitties