The California Legislature passed Senate Bill (SB) 10 by Senator Dave Cortese today to prevent fentanyl overdoses in public schools. SB 10 is designed to provide educators and other school staff with the tools and knowledge necessary to save a child who overdoses on campus, making it a statutory requirement for schools to intervene in cases of opioid abuse and addiction. Under SB 10, local education agencies in California will incorporate protocols for responding to student opioid overdoses into their mandatory school safety plans.

SB 10 would also give school staff, students, and families information about the growing risk of opioids. The bill requires the California Department of Education to distribute informational materials containing awareness and safety advice regarding opioids. The bill passed the Senate on a concurrence vote today and advances to the Governor.

“I applaud my colleagues for joining me in the fight to prevent youth fentanyl overdoses,” said Senator Cortese (D-San Jose). “Fentanyl is responsible for an astounding one in five youth deaths. This legislature is committed to doing everything in our power to prevent tragic overdoses, and we hope the Governor will help us make Melanie’s Law a reality.”

SB 10 is named after Melanie Ramos, a 15-year-old who tragically lost her life to a fentanyl overdose in her high school bathroom. The bill aligns with the Budget Act of 2023 to ensure, among other provisions, that every middle and high school in California can easily access and afford the opioid antagonist Naloxone, also known by its brand name, Narcan.

SB 10 has received bipartisan legislative support and no opposition. This bill is co-sponsored by the County of Santa Clara, The Santa Clara County Office of Education, the California Association of Student Councils, and the California Consortium of Addiction Programs & Professionals. Support for SB 10 includes Superintendent of Public Instruction Tony Thurmond, the Santa Clara County School Boards Association, the Los Angeles County Office of Education, the California Teachers Association, the California Federation of Teachers, ACLU California, several law enforcement groups, Govern for California, and the California School Nurses Organization.

Senator Dave Cortese represents Senate District 15, which encompasses San Jose and much of Santa Clara County in the heart of Silicon Valley. Visit Senator Cortese’s website: https://sd15.senate.ca.gov

###

Office Information

Capitol Office

1021 O Street Suite 7520 Sacramento, CA 95814

Phone: (916) 651-4015 Fax: (916) 651-4915

San Jose Office

1155 Meridian Avenue Suite 100 San Jose, CA 95125

Phone: (408) 723-4154 Fax: (408) 723-4159

California State Senate | Democratic Caucus © 2025 | Privacy Policy | Accessibility Statement

Legislature Passes “Melanie’s Law,” Senator Cortese’s Bill to Stop Youth Fentanyl Overdoses