FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE

Date: Monday, March 17, 2025

Contact: Elisa Rivera (Caballero)

(559) 264-3070 Elisa.Rivera@sen.ca.gov

Contact: Brody Fernandez (Soria)

916-276-3390 Brody.Fernandez@asm.ca.gov

Madera Community Hospital Reopens, Restoring Critical Healthcare Access

MADERA, CA – Senator Anna M. Caballero (D-Merced) , Assemblywoman Esmeralda Soria (D-Fresno) and CEO of Madera Community Hospital Steve Stark will celebrate the re-opening of the Madera Community Hospital tomorrow, Tuesday, March 18 th , details below. This is a victory for healthcare access, economic stability and the well-being of our region. This re-opening signifies the restoration of hope, security and lifesaving medical services for the people of Madera and beyond.

The closure of the Madera Community Hospital in December 2022 left hundreds of thousands without emergency medical care and displaced over 900 healthcare workers. For over two years, our community endured significant hardships, with tragic stories of patients forced to travel long distances for urgent care, overwhelming surrounding hospitals and putting lives at risk. The absence of local emergency medical services demanded immediate action.

The implementation of the Distressed Hospital Loan Program , which became the foundation of a larger relief package to support hospitals in financial distress, served as a critical first step in addressing the financial challenges faced by healthcare facilities across the state. This program ensures that healthcare facilities in underserved areas remain operational and capable of providing essential services to their communities. Madera Community Hospital received $57 million from the Distressed Hospital Loan Program.

“Today, we celebrate more than the reopening of a hospital—we celebrate the restoration of hope, security and access to critical healthcare services. Through the tireless efforts of my legislative colleagues, stakeholders and the Governor, we secured the funding and policy solutions necessary to rescue Madera Community Hospital and protect at-risk hospitals across the state.

Healthcare access is not a privilege—it is a fundamental right. No family should ever have to wonder where to go in a medical emergency. With today’s reopening, Madera families can once again have the quality care they deserve, right in their own community.

This is a new beginning. I remain committed to strengthening our healthcare system to ensure no community is left behind. Together, we are building a healthier, stronger California.” –Senator Anna M. Caballero, Senate District 14

“Today the residents of Madera regain access to life-saving and preventative healthcare. Today we restore essential healthcare services to our community, our region and our families,” Assemblywoman Soria said. “In 2022 when it was announced that Madera Community Hospital was closing, people in our community were scared, they were facing unknowns about where the closest hospital would be in case they needed life-threatening care. Today, we can say that we have restored access to healthcare for the residents of Madera and our neighboring communities. Madera Community Hospital not only opens its doors to the community today, but it also brings peace of mind. When you listen to needs of your constituents, these are the results. I want to thank Senator Anna Caballero for her partnership to get this Hospital re-open.”

While today’s re-opening is a significant milestone, a community event will be held later to honor the resilience of Madera, the dedication of our healthcare workers and the collective efforts that made this day possible. The entire community can join us to celebrate this moment of renewal and hope for a healthier future.

Conference as Madera Community Hospital Reopens

WHO/WHAT: Senator Anna Caballero (D-Merced), and Assemblywoman Esmeralda Soria (D-Merced), will gather at Madera Community Hospital as the hospital announces it will reopen, after being closed for two years.

WHERE: Madera Community Hospital, 1250 E Almond Ave, Madera, CA 93637

WHEN : Tuesday, March 18, 2025 from 7—9 a.m.

RUN OF SHOW:

7—9 a.m. – Media Availability inside hospital, interviews, and 1x1’s with Caballero and Soria

PRESS CONFERENCE BEGINS – 9 a.m.

9 a.m. – Madera Community Hospital CEO Steve Stark to speak

9:10 – Senator Caballero to speak

9:20 – Assemblywoman Soria to speak

9:30 – Wrap up

To RSVP or for interviews or inquiries, please contact: Elisa Rivera at (559) 264-3070 or Brody Fernandez at (916) 276-3390

Senator Anna M. Caballero represents the 14 th Senate District, composed of majority portions of Merced, Fresno and Madera Counties. She is the Chair of the Senate Appropriations Committee and a Member of the Middle Mile Advisory Committee among others.

Assemblywoman Esmeralda Soria represents the 27th Assembly District which includes communities in Fresno, Madera, and Merced counties.

Office Information

Capitol

Office

1021 O Street, Suite 7620

Sacramento, CA 95814

Phone: (916) 651-4014

Fresno

District Office

2550 Mariposa Mall, Suite 2016

Fresno, CA 93721

Phone: (559) 264-3070

Merced

510 West Main Street, Suite E

Merced, CA 95340

Phone: (209) 726-5495

California State Senate | Democratic Caucus © | Privacy Policy | Accessibility Statement