Newsletter: Sign Up For The Latest Updates

Sacramento, CA — State Senator Dr. Aisha Wahab’s (D–Silicon Valley) housing package continues its success in the Senate with seven bills advancing to the Assembly.

“Housing is the most pressing issue for all Californians, and this package of bills addresses the housing affordability crisis through the production and preservation of housing units, and protection of renters and homeowners,” said Dr. Wahab.

Senate Bill 681 will address issues of housing affordability through a variety of mechanisms including limiting rental housing junk fees, enhancing consumer protections on second mortgages to prevent foreclosures, limiting HOA fines, increasing the renters’ tax credit, and expanding opportunities to build housing at all income levels.

Senate Bill 384, the Preventing Algorithmic Price Fixing Act, prohibits businesses from using or selling price fixing software that creates digital collusion amongst competitors regarding the prices they set for their goods and services—including rental housing.

Senate Bill 436,the Keeping Californians Housed Act, extends the 3-day notice to terminate tenancy for nonpayment of rent to 14-days.

Senate Bill 522, the Post-Disaster Tenant Protections Act, extends just cause for eviction protections to units previously covered by the Tenant Protection Act and ensure continued stability for renters.

Senate Bill 625 expedites the rebuilding of housing in areas impacted by major disasters, including streamlined ministerial approval process for development proposals that will rebuild residential developments on parcels that contain structures that were damaged or destroyed in a declared disaster.

Senate Bill 262 expands “prohousing local policies” to include policies that prevent displacement.

Senate Bills 733 requires a city or county to submit as part of its annual report information on the permitting of any Low Barrier Navigation Centers in its jurisdiction.

Together, these bills work to make housing more affordable, fair, and accessible—whether you're renting, buying, or building. By addressing junk fees, disaster recovery, tenant protections, and anti-displacement policies, the package helps ensure Californians of all income levels can stay and thrive in their communities.

The deadline to pass Assembly policy committees is July 18, 2025.

Office Information

Capitol Office

1021 O Street

Suite 8530

Sacramento, CA 95814

Phone: (916) 651-4410

Fremont

39510 Paseo Padre Parkway

Suite 280

Fremont, CA 94538

Phone: (510) 794-3900

California State Senate | Democratic Caucus © | Privacy Policy | Accessibility Statement