SACRAMENTO— As wildfire season intensifies across the state, California is investing more resources in CAL FIRE than ever before thanks to critical funding secured by California’s Democratic leadership in this year’s state budget.

This year’s historic investment begins the landmark transition of CAL FIRE’S antiquated seasonal firefighter staffing plan to a modern day staffing model, which will eventually transition all 3,000 seasonal CAL FIRE firefighters to full-time status 365 days per year. The 2025-26 state budget includes funding to begin the transition of hundreds of seasonal firefighters, who will officially be on the fire lines full-time early next year.

Facing longer and more destructive fire seasons each year, the investments builds on massive efforts by Democratic leaders over the past decade, which have nearly doubled the ranks of CAL FIRE firefighters from 6,700 to over 12,000 today. Another 2,100 CAL FIRE firefighters will be hired over the next 48 months thanks to a previous budget agreement championed by state Democrats.

“January’s LA firestorm was a painful reminder that wildfire season is now year round in the Golden State,” said Senate President pro Tempore Mike McGuire (D-North Coast). “We know that firefighters have been facing deteriorating conditions, longer and hotter fire seasons, and overwhelming fatigue as they battle the largest mega fires in American history. This year’s budget is a historic first that will pivot away from an antiquated seasonal staffing model and implement what our communities need right now—an all-hands-on-deck approach with every CAL FIRE firefighter full-time and prepared to respond 24 hours per day, 365 days a year.”

The Golden State and the entire West are burning at historic rates and have presented firefighters with new challenges, devastating conditions, and long, grueling hours. Eight of the most destructive wildfires in California history have hit over the past five years, with two of the deadliest wildfires burning over 16,000 homes and businesses in Los Angeles County this January.

Across California, more than $4 billion has been allocated in vegetation management projects to reduce ongoing wildfire risks. This includes hazardous fuel reduction projects, vegetation management, defensible space programs, and cutting-edge technology to prevent devastating wildfires.

And recently passed legislation includes CEQA exemptions for wildfire fuel breaks, shady fuel breaks, roadside fuel breaks, and prescribed burns. This new state law will significantly speed up wildfire mitigation projects and help make communities across the Golden State more fire safe.

“The conditions CAL FIRE firefighters are facing is like nothing we’ve ever seen before, and we needed the state to have our backs so that we can keep fighting these blazes morning, noon and night, every season of the year,” said Tim Edwards, President of CAL FIRE local 2881. “I’m so grateful for the leadership of Sen. McGuire who’s been fighting to fix the CAL FIRE firefighter shortage for years. While we have more work ahead, the progress we’re making is remarkable. This year’s budget action - and the expanded resources over the last several years - are game changers to make the Golden State more wildfire safe.”

“The fires that ravaged LA earlier this year were a devastating reminder that firefighters are stretched thin, and their health and safety must be a priority,” said Senator Tim Grayson (D-Concord). “We rely on them to protect our communities and our families, and we want them know they can rely on the state for the resources they desperately need to do their jobs.”

“A promise made is a promise kept. I was grateful to meet and work with Pro Tem McGuire and Senator Grayson, along with fire service leadership across the state, on these important and commonsense measures to expedite wildfire mitigation projects. They have followed through on their commitment to deliver for our communities, and now we can get to work on making California, and our residents, safer from wildfire thanks to their efforts,” said Chief Lewis Broschard of the Contra Costa County Fire Protection District.

En Español

###

Mike McGuire is President pro Tempore of the California Senate. He represents the North Coast of California, which stretches from the Golden Gate Bridge to the Oregon border, including Del Norte, Trinity, Humboldt, Lake, Mendocino, Sonoma, and Marin Counties. Website of Senate Leader McGuire: https://sd02.senate.ca.gov/

Office Information

1021 O Street, Suite 8518 Sacramento, CA 95814 Phone: (916) 651-4002

California State Senate | Democratic Caucus © | Privacy Policy | Accessibility Statement

A More Fire-Safe California Starts with CAL FIRE: California Democrats Deliver Major Budget Win