ARTESIA – State Sen. Bob Archuleta (D-Pico Rivera) joined the Artesia City Council at the community event celebrating the $5 million he secured for major improvements to A.J. Padelford Park that will address the city’s needs for open space and parkland.

He joined Artesia Mayor Tony Lima, Mayor Pro Tem Miguel Canales, Councilmembers Ali Taj and Melissa Ramoso, as well as residents, Lakewood Sheriff Station’s personnel and other dignitaries for the presentation of the ceremonial check and the ribbon-cutting program for the new picnic shelter.

“This money will change the complexion of the city of Artesia by providing a safe place for families, seniors and the entire community to gather,” Sen. Archuleta said.

A.J. Padelford Park is located in the working class community of Artesia and is in desperate need of an expansion, city officials said.

“The money allows the city to make substantial improvements, and I want to thank Senator Archuleta, for his tireless work on securing this money,” Mayor Lima said.

The park size has not changed since its development in 1973 and provides 0.47 acres per 1,000 residents, which is significantly below the Los Angeles County average of 3.3 acres per 1,000 residents.

“This project will improve park safety and create more recreational opportunities for local youth and families,” Archuleta said.

The expansion will also lower the density per square mile and create more park space per person, creating a greater quality of life in the neighborhood. The park, in its current configuration, has public safety issues, city and law enforcement officials said.

“The upgrades to the park will open up opportunities of participation and enjoyment for the entire community,” Sen. Archuleta said.

“I think this great,” said Artesia resident Lorena Flores, who was at the park with her daughter, Ashley, 11, and son, Ivan, 6. “If the park is bigger it will be better.”

The park was named after A.J. Padelford after his passing in 1972. A.J. Padelford Park shares grounds with the North Artesia Community Center.

Office Information

Capitol Office

1021 O Street, Suite 6620

Sacramento, CA 95814

Phone: (916) 651-4030

District Office

12501 Imperial Hwy. Ste. 110

Norwalk, CA 90650

Phone: (562) 406-1001

California State Senate | Democratic Caucus © 2025 | Privacy Policy | Accessibility Statement

Senator Archuleta is Joined by the Artesia City Council Neighborhood Children.