Newsletter: Sign Up For The Latest Updates

Sacramento, CA — State Senator Dr. Aisha Wahab ( D-Silicon Valley) authored two vital assisted living bills Senate Bill (SB) 433 and SB 435—both passing the Senate—bringing hope, safety, and dignity to some of our most vulnerable residents. As California’s seniors face growing threats from harmful federal policies and climate-driven disasters, SB 433 and SB 435 address the unique challenges that senior and disabled residents face at Residential Care Facilities for the Elderly (RCFEs) in our state.

“Seniors are one of our most vulnerable populations and the fastest growing homelessness demographic. They deserve safety, stability, and dignity in their housing,” said Dr. Wahab. “These bills establish commonsense provisions that address the increasing costs of RCFEs as well as safety concerns due to a loss of power—effectively saving lives.”

The average age of assisted living residents is nearly 87 years old , and 69% need help walking.  30% have Alzheimer’s or some form of dementia. The high needs of this population requires stable and safe housing to ensure consistent access to care and resources.

SB 433, Assisted Living Rental Rate Protection, creates an income-based cap to room and board rates at Residential Care Facilities for the Elderly (RCFEs), allowing all Medi-Cal assisted living program participants to keep the same personal needs allowance as SSI recipients—$179 in 2025.

Right now, an RCFE can charge non-SSI Medi-Cal assisted living program participants any amount for room and board. This amount can even exceed the person’s monthly income.  SB 433 creates a common-sense solution to protect California’s low-income, disabled and aging population from displacement.

SB 435, RCFE Emergency Backup Power, comes in response to the growing threat that prolonged power outages present to vulnerable assisted living residents. Climate change is increasing the risks of wildfires, heatwaves and extreme weather conditions, all of which can lead to power outages in those facilities.

The lack of backup power puts their lives in danger and over-burdens first responders.  Without it, residents face preventable risks, such as the loss of ventilation, AC, lighting, and life-saving medical devices.

SB 433 is sponsored by Justice in Aging and California Advocates for Nursing Home Reform, and SB 435 is sponsored by the California Alliance for Retired Americans. Both bills must pass their policy committees no later than July 18, 2025.

Office Information

Capitol Office

1021 O Street

Suite 8530

Sacramento, CA 95814

Phone: (916) 651-4410

Fremont

39510 Paseo Padre Parkway

Suite 280

Fremont, CA 94538

Phone: (510) 794-3900

California State Senate | Democratic Caucus © | Privacy Policy | Accessibility Statement