For Immediate Release

MENLO PARK – State Senator Josh Becker named Rayna Lehman, whose work for the San Mateo Central Labor Council has provided a lifeline to thousands of union members and their families, the 2021 Woman of the Year for the 13 th Senate District.

Senator Becker honored Ms. Lehman Monday evening [March 8] during a virtual meeting of the council. The accolade was a surprise.

“Rayna is a wonder, said Senator Becker. “She connects union members going through hard times to resources in the community. In normal times, this is a difficult job. During COVID, her endurance is almost superhuman. She is constantly answering phones and finding out about new services and programs to help members. Most significantly, she connected with Second Harvest to create and establish the drive-through food giveaways that feed the households of hundreds of out-of-work union members.”

“Thank you, Senator, I’m overwhelmed,” said Ms. Lehman, addressing the virtual meeting of more than 75 people. “I see friends and family here, I see people who mean so very much to me, people who have supported me, people who have given me hope, given me love, and taught me so much over the years. It’s been an honor for me to do this work. To be named Woman of the Year on International Women’s Day is stupendous.”

Ms. Lehman has been the director of the AFL-CIO Community Services Program of the San Mateo Central Labor Council, in cooperation with United Way of the Bay Area, since 1982. The program assists struggling union members and their families in San Mateo County by providing access to re-employment and re-training, health care assistance, health education, child care assistance, food, community resources, and emergency services. Since last spring, Ms. Lehman has coordinated, in partnership with Second Harvest Silicon Valley Food Bank, twice monthly food distributions that aid an average of 800 families each time.

Ms. Lehman also is the mastermind of the San Mateo County Trades Introduction Program, a state certified pre-apprenticeship program launched in 2014 that has graduated more than 300 students and placed over 200 of them into union construction apprenticeship programs.

A longtime Peninsula resident, Ms. Lehman is a former San Mateo County planning commissioner. She also has represented the labor community on the county's Private Industry Council, Commission on the Status of Women, Children’s Health Initiative, Child Care Partnership Council, the San Mateo County School to Career Partnership, the Governor's School to Career Committee on Employer-Labor Involvement, the San Mateo County Workforce Investment Board, and the San Mateo County Biotech Blue Ribbon Task Force. An inductee of the San Mateo County Women’s Hall of Fame, Ms. Lehman also has participated on two county workgroups advising the Blue Ribbon Task Force on Adult Healthcare Coverage Expansion.

Now a member of Office and Professional Employees Local 29, Ms. Lehman's career includes completion of the three-year Painter and Decorator Apprenticeship program and a 17-year membership in Painters Local 15, nine of which she served as president of the Local. The mother of two adult sons, she and her husband, Bill, reside in Menlo Park.

###

Text of Ms. Lehman’s Woman of the Year Award:

Media Contact: Leslie Guevarra, 415-298-3404, leslie.guevarra@sen.ca.gov

Office Information

Capitol Office

1021 O Street, Suite 6520

District Office

3525 Alameda de las Pulgas Menlo Park, CA 94025 Phone: (650) 233-2724

Social Media

California State Senate | Democratic Caucus © 2023 | Privacy Policy | Accessibility Statement

September 8, 2025

August 28, 2025

August 19, 2025

July 28, 2025

Rayna Lehman Named the 2021 Woman of the Year for the 13th Senate District

Statement from Bay Area Caucus on Preserving the $750 Million Bay Area Transit Bridge Loan

Creating Change – August 2025

Is California on Track for 2030?

Creating Change – July 2025