Information from California Attorney General Rob Bonta

Resources for California’s Immigrant Communities

Know Your Immigration Rights and Protections Under the Law

You have the right to apply for and secure housing without sharing your immigration status . California law prohibits housing providers from asking about your immigration status unless you are applying for affordable housing funded by the federal government. Additionally, housing providers cannot harass or intimidate you by threatening or sharing information about your immigration status to ICE, law enforcement, or other government agencies.

You have the right to access emergency medical care . Federal laws and regulations ensure the rights of all people to access emergency medical care, including undocumented immigrants.

You have the right to an attorney . If you are arrested by police, you have the right to a government-appointed attorney. If you are detained by ICE and/or are facing immigration proceedings, you have the right to seek legal assistance through an attorney.

State and local law enforcement cannot ask for your immigration status . California law expressly prohibits law enforcement from inquiring about a person's immigration status for immigration enforcement purposes.

State and local law enforcement cannot share your personal information . This includes sharing your home or work address for immigration purposes, unless that information is available to the public or unless that information involves previous criminal arrest, convictions or similar criminal history.

State and local law enforcement cannot assist ICE with immigration enforcement, with very limited exceptions . This means they cannot investigate, cannot interrogate, cannot arrest, and cannot detain you unless it is as part of joint federal task force where the primary purpose is not immigration enforcement.

The full "Know Your Immigration Rights" consumer alert is available in English , Spanish , Arabic , Armenian , Chinese , Hindi , Japanese , Korean , Persian , Punjabi , Russian , Tagalog , and Vietnamese .

Guidance for Immigrant Students and Families

Right to a Free Public Education: All children have a right to equal access to free public education, regardless of their or their parents'/guardians' immigration status.

Information Required for School Enrollment: Schools must accept a variety of documents from the student's parent or guardian to demonstrate proof of child's age or residency and schools are not required to keep a copy of the document used as proof of a child's age.

Confidentiality of Personal Information: Federal and state laws protect student education records and personal information. These laws generally require that schools obtain written consent from parents or guardians before releasing student information, unless the release of information is for educational purposes, is already public, or is in response to a court order or subpoena.

The complete Guide for Students and Families is available in English and Spanish . Additional languages will be available in the coming days.

The complete Quick Reference for School Officials guide is available in English and Spanish . Additional languages will be available in the coming days.

Protect Yourself from Immigration Scams

If you need help applying for immigration relief, be careful who you hire. Watch out for immigration scams that can cost you thousands of dollars and/or harm your immigration status! Here are some tips and resources to help:

Go to a legitimate legal aid organization for free legal help . Many nonprofit organizations provide free immigration help to low-income individuals, such as those found through the resources below. To find a legal aid organization near you, go to lawhelpca.org.

Keep your original documents in a safe place . Don't give your original documents to anyone unless you see proof that the government requires the original document. If you give someone an original, they may lose it or refuse to return it unless you pay them.

Do not hire an immigration consultant or a notary . Only lawyers, accredited representatives, and recognized organizations can give you legal advice or represent you in immigration court. Immigration consultants – who may call themselves immigration experts, notarios, notaries public, or paralegals – cannot do so.

Do not give money or personal information to anyone who calls, texts, or emails you claiming that there is a problem with your immigration matter . No federal or state agency, including USCIS, will ever ask for your personal information or payment over the phone, by email, or text.

For more dos and don'ts, see the full "Immigration Services Fraud" consumer alert available here in English , Spanish , Arabic , Armenian , Chinese (Simplified) , Hindi , Japanese , Korean , Persian , Punjabi , Russian , Tagalog , and Vietnamese .

Guidance and Model Policies for Public Institutions

In December 2024, Attorney General Bonta issued updated guidance to help staff develop practical plans to protect the rights of immigrants and their families to safely access public institutions by limiting support of immigration enforcement activity at these institutions.

Guidance and Model Policies to Assist California's Superior Courts

Guidance and Model Policies to Assist California's Healthcare Facilities

Guidance and Model Policies to Assist California's Colleges and Universities

Guidance and Model Policies to Assist California's K-12 Schools

Guidance and Model Policies to Assist the Division of Labor Standards Enforcement, the Agricultural Labor Relations Board, and the Division of Workers Compensation

Guidance and Model Policies to Assist California's Public Libraries

Guidance and Model Policies to Assist California Shelters

Each model policy was originally developed in consultation with a wide range of stakeholders, advocates, and state and local agencies, and each: (1) outlines relevant federal and state protections for all individuals seeking access to the public institution; (2) provides policy recommendations that comply with federal and state laws, and that may mitigate disruptions from immigration enforcement actions at the institution; and (3) lists model policies that may be adopted by the institution. While the guidance is tailored to certain types of public institutions, any institution that is accessible to the public may choose to adopt a similar policy to protect the rights and safety of their patrons.

Resources for Employers

The California Department of Justice and California Labor Commissioner’s Office have issued joint guidance on frequently asked questions to help employers and workers understand and comply with the Immigrant Worker Protection Act (Assembly Bill 450).

Access Free and Low-Cost Legal Assistance

Visit Law Help CA or Immigration Law Help to find immigration assistance near you.

File a Complaint

If you believe your rights have been violated, report it to the California Department of Justice at oag.ca.gov/report .

If you believe you were subject to discrimination, harassment or retaliation, report it to the California Department of Civil Rights at calcivilrights.ca.gov/complaintprocess/ .

Law Enforcement’s Responsibilities Under SB 54

Attorney General Bonta issued updated bulletins describing local and state law enforcement agencies’ obligations under SB 54 (Statutes of 2017), which prohibits the use of state and local resources to assist with federal immigration enforcement, with very limited exceptions. Specifically, under SB 54:

California law enforcement agencies are prohibited from investigating, interrogating, detaining, or arresting persons for immigration enforcement purposes.

California law enforcement agencies cannot honor transfer and notification requests or provide information regarding a person’s release date except in certain circumstances outlined in the bulletin.

California law enforcement agencies may not allow officers to be supervised by federal agencies or deputized for immigration enforcement purposes.

California law enforcement agencies may not enter into new contracts with the federal government to house or detain noncitizens in a locked detention facility for purposes of immigration custody.

California law enforcement agencies are prohibited from participating in joint law enforcement task forces where the primary purpose of the task force is immigration enforcement.

Nothing in SB 54 prohibits a California law enforcement agency from investigating, detaining, or arresting individuals for criminal activity under state or federal law.

To learn more, view the SB 54 Law Enforcement bulletin .

Defense Counsel and Prosecutors Responsibility Under Section 1016.3

The Attorney General issued new guidance to provide defense counsel and prosecutors with information regarding their obligations under Section 1016.3 of the Penal Code to affirmatively let defendants know about the immigration consequences of a proposed plea deal.

Defense counsel is required to give personalized advice to their clients with respect to the options available to them, including the particular immigration consequences potentially associated with each option. Where necessary, defense counsel must conduct legal research or consult with immigration counsel to provide specific advice to their client.

Prosecutors should consider the avoidance of adverse immigration consequences in the plea negotiation process as one factor in an effort to reach a just resolution.

Section 1016.3 does not prevent or in any way prohibit prosecutors from prosecuting individuals for criminal activity under state or federal law.

To learn more, view the Defense Counsel and Prosecutors Section 1016.3 guidance .

Information sourced from the California Attorney General at oag.ca.gov and provided as a state resource, and should not be considered legal advice from the California Legislature, a legislative office, or legislative staff. Contact appropriate legal counsel for legal advice.

Office Information

Capitol Office

1021 O St. Suite 8710 Sacramento, CA 95814

Phone: (916) 651-4022 Fax: (916) 651-4922

West Covina Office

100 S. Vincent Ave. Suite 401 West Covina, CA 91790

Phone: (626) 430-2499

Ontario Office

1520E N. Mountain Ave. Building E, Suite 201 Ontario, CA 91762

Phone: (909) 460-6064

California State Senate | Democratic Caucus © | Privacy Policy | Accessibility Statement

Resources, Guidance and Model Policies for Immigration from California's Attorney General