SACRAMENTO - Senate Bill 357, which was authored by Senator Caroline Menjivar (D-San Fernando Valley) to transform the juvenile justice system in Los Angeles County, passed the Senate House of Origin vote yesterday and was sent to the California Assembly.

SB 357 addresses a longstanding crisis within Los Angeles County’s Probation Department by granting the Los Angeles County Board of Supervisors the ability to delegate partial duties and responsibilities of the Probation Department to another county entity, and grants that entity the ability to review juvenile case files, if it chooses to do so. This empowers the county to better support justice-involved youth through rehabilitation and reentry programs.

“Those in power will always push back against checks on their power, but SB 357 shouldn’t be impeded because of a department’s vanity when the current system leaves young people dead, injured, dehumanized, and in a hopeless cycle of incarceration,” said Senator Caroline Menjivar. “Youth under the current supervision system deserve better. The status quo is broken, SB 357 gives LA County another tool in their tool box to meet the needs of youth. Probation staff will be able to focus on their core safety and security responsibilities, while the county’s care-centered departments work in tandem with them, ensuring utilization of the available supportive services that truly rehabilitate the youth under our care.”

The inhumane conditions of juvenile facilities in Los Angeles, and the consistent inability of Probation to address persistent issues, have put the lives and safety of system-impacted youth at risk. In 2023, a young person died from an overdose as a result of staffing shortages, and this year there have been at least 9 overdoses at Los Padrinos, which has been ordered by a court to close. Also this year, thirty Probation officers were indicted by the Attorney General for running gladiator-style fight clubs in the halls and camps. As a result, Los Angeles County agreed to pay $2.7 million to a teenager whose beating during such a fight was captured on CCTV. This is in addition to the County’s $4 billion settlement of more than 6,800 cases alleging sexual abuse by County employees, including Probation staff.

On May 13, 2025, SB 357 was supported by the LA County Board of Supervisors through a unanimously approved motion.

“Young people entrusted to the care of Los Angeles County Probation deserve opportunities for growth, support, and meaningful change in their lives. Today, achieving Youth Justice Reimagined is not possible due to state law that prevents a care-centered workforce from supporting the work of the Probation Department,” said Supervisor Lindsey P. Horvath . “SB 357 gives Los Angeles County the authority we need to empower a properly-trained workforce to care for our youth and keep them safe. By allowing us to delegate critical youth services to the right departments, we can begin to rebuild trust, center healing, and ensure that every young person in our care is met with rehabilitative services and supports. This is about turning systemic failure into structural reform—and that work cannot wait.”

"For too long, LA County’s most vulnerable young people have suffered the devastating consequences of a dysfunctional probation system. SB 357 is a powerful step forward which will allow community members, service providers, and county and state leaders to unite around solutions grounded in accountability, compassion, and the full potential of young people." - Nicole Brown, Director of Policy and Research with the Urban Peace Institute

SB 357 is not prescriptive, rather it grants the LA County Board of Supervisors the authority to delegate partial duties and responsibilities of those in charge of caring for juveniles in our justice system to another county entity in a phased and measured approach.

Authorizes a county entity who has been delegated partial duties the ability to review juvenile case files.

Prohibits a county board of supervisors from transferring any duties and responsibilities that must be undertaken by peace officers as required by existing law.

SB 357 is purposefully measured to allow for the creation of a robust collaboration between the Board of Supervisors, the LA County Probation Department, and stakeholders.

###

Office Information

Capitol Office

1021 O Street, Suite 6630

Sacramento, CA 95814

Phone: (916) 651-4020

Van Nuys

6150 Van Nuys Blvd., Suite 400

Van Nuys, CA 91401

Phone: (818) 901-5588

California State Senate | Democratic Caucus © | Privacy Policy | Accessibility Statement