Thursday, September 1, 2022

For Immediate Release

Contact: Elisa Rivera

(209) 726-5495 Elisa.Rivera@sen.ca.gov

SB 905: Carbon Capture Removal, Utilization, and Storage Program Heads to Governor for Signature

CCRUS, a critical component of successful climate action and part of the 2022 Legislative Climate Package

SACRAMENTO : Senator Anna M. Caballero (D-Merced) announced today the passage of SB 905, legislation jointly authored with Senator Nancy Skinner (D-Berkeley), that is focused on carbon capture removal, utilization, and storage. The bill is part of the Legislature’s Climate Package, which tackled a myriad of goals aimed at targeting climate change, including accelerated greenhouse gas reduction goal setting and codifying carbon neutrality goals.

SB 905 seeks to develop and implement a regulatory framework that enables a streamlined deployment process of CCRUS and engineered carbon removal technologies and infrastructure and safety and environmental guidelines. This program, housed under CARB, will set up a framework that ensures streamlined permitting, strict project monitoring and financial backing, environmental protections, pipeline safety, and accountability reflected in multiple requirement reporting mechanisms.

“SB 905 is the result of negotiations made on policies that came from our Senate Climate Change Working Group that has been meeting since last fall. It positions California to become a global leader in CCRUS development, creates the opportunity for investment in new and innovative technologies and signals to the market, California’s commitment to sustainable climate change,” said Senator Caballero. “SB 905 works to balance efficient project approval processes with thorough health and safety guidelines and reporting mechanisms. Giving California an avenue for emission reduction projects while maintaining our strict environmental standards is exactly how our state should approach CCRUS deployment to battle climate change.”

“The scientific consensus is clear: We need to act now to both cut greenhouse gas emissions and remove climate-harming carbon already in the atmosphere. Both emissions reduction and carbon capture are absolutely necessary to prevent the most devastating impacts of climate change. SB 905 cements California's global leadership on climate by enabling rule-making for carbon capture and doing it in a way that safeguards our environment, public health, and at-risk communities.”

Climate change poses a significant threat to public health and California has led the world in addressing and reducing greenhouse gas (GHGs) emissions through its numerous programs. California’s main goal is to achieve net carbon neutrality by 2045 in order to achieve global climate stabilization. Numerous experts, including the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, the International Energy Agency, Stanford University, Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory, the University of California at Berkeley, and the University of California at Los Angeles have identified CCRUS as a critical and necessary component of successful climate action globally, nationally, and in California.

"SB 905 creates sensible guardrails that will allow California to make strides on our climate goals, while responsibly protecting our environment and continuing to lead the nation on responsible green energy policy,” said Senate President pro Tempore Toni G. Atkins (D-San Diego). “I applaud Senator Anna Caballero and Senator Nancy Skinner for deftly navigating a very difficult issue and producing legislation that will enable California to be a leader in carbon emission reduction and safeguard against challenges for years to come.”

For interviews or inquiries, please contact Elisa Rivera at (209) 726-5495

Senator Anna M. Caballero represents the 12 th Senate District, composed of Merced and San Benito Counties, Salinas Valley, and portions of Fresno, Madera and Stanislaus Counties.

###

Office Information

Capitol

Office

1021 O Street, Suite 7620

Sacramento, CA 95814

Phone: (916) 651-4014

Fresno

District Office

2550 Mariposa Mall, Suite 2016

Fresno, CA 93721

Phone: (559) 264-3070

Merced

510 West Main Street, Suite E

Merced, CA 95340

Phone: (209) 726-5495

California State Senate | Democratic Caucus © | Privacy Policy | Accessibility Statement