SACRAMENTO – California Gov. Gavin Newsom Friday, Aug. 9, 2019, appointed State Sen. Bob Archuleta (D-Pico Rivera) to the Governor’s Military Council.

The Council’s mission is to provide a sustained focus on growing California’s defense and national security missions in state administration.

“I am deeply honored by Governor Newsom’s trust in my ability to serve the citizens of the great state of California in this capacity,” Archuleta said. “I look forward to continuing my efforts to support our men and women in uniform as they proudly serve and defend our state and the country.”

Archuleta is currently the Chair of the California State Senate Committee on Veterans Affairs.

In a Tweet posted on Friday, Senate President Pro Tempore Toni Atkins congratulated her colleague.

“…Sen. Archuleta cares deeply about military affairs and is a true advocate of those in uniform. We are lucky to have his expertise in this role,” she said.

Senator Archuleta’s advocacy on behalf of the military, their families, and veterans, extends across decades from his service as an Army paratrooper in the 82nd Airborne, a member of the Los Angeles County Commission on Military and Veterans Affairs; a member of the United States Army Advisory Board for Military Recruitment, and as a presidential appointee to the Board of Visitors to the United States Military Academy at West Point.

He also served on the Montebello Police Department and was named 2019 Legislator of the Year by the American G.I. Forum of California.

On March 28, 2013, former Governor of California, Edmund G. Brown, Jr announced the creation of the Governor’s Military Council as both the Governor and State Legislature recognized the importance of a sustained effort to support the military in the State.

Office Information

Capitol Office

1021 O Street, Suite 6620

Sacramento, CA 95814

Phone: (916) 651-4030

District Office

12501 Imperial Hwy. Ste. 110

Norwalk, CA 90650

Phone: (562) 406-1001

California State Senate | Democratic Caucus © 2025 | Privacy Policy | Accessibility Statement