View the 2024 Annual Report

The San Diego-based company is pioneering technology to create environmentally friendly, biodegradable plastics

SACRAMENTO – Sen. Catherine S. Blakespear, D-Encinitas, has named Algenesis Labs as Senate District 38 Small Business of the Year.

The company, founded in 2016 by three UC San Diego professors, develops innovative technology to address the global plastic waste crisis. The company’s Soleic® technology is the world’s first high-performance, bio-based, fully biodegradable plastic material that leaves no harmful microplastics behind. This technology is already being applied in footwear and other consumer products.

“I selected Algenesis Labs as Small Business of the Year because of the incredible work it is doing to create environmentally friendly materials that can be used instead of petroleum-based plastic that takes hundreds or thousands of years to eventually break down,” Sen. Blakespear said. “Algenesis’ innovative work proves there is a better, more responsible way to produce plastic products that can help protect our environment.”

“We’re deeply honored to be recognized by Senator Blakespear as District 38 Small Business of the Year for 2025,” said Dr. Stephen Mayfield, CEO of Algenesis Labs. “At Algenesis Labs, our mission to eliminate persistent microplastics aligns closely with Senator Blakespear’s commitment to a cleaner, healthier California. Together, we’re showing that science, innovation, and community action can tackle some of the planet’s most pressing challenges.” Sen. Blakespear has fought to reduce plastic waste, increase sustainable living and better protect the environment. She authored legislation to eliminate plastic bags from being provided at grocery store checkouts beginning in 2026, has advocated for tough regulations to implement groundbreaking legislation to eliminate plastic packaging and has pushed for continued funding for the Habitat Conservation Fund.

At an event in June, she shared her vision for how California can accelerate its transition to a more sustainable future. You can watch her talk here .

Sen. Blakespear represents Senate District 38, which covers northern San Diego County and part of southern Orange County. To learn more about the district and Sen. Blakespear, visit her Senate website.

Sen. Blakespear presented a Senate Resolution to Alegensis CEO Stephen Mayfield (holding frame) and the company’s other employees for being named Senate District 38 Small Business of the Year.

Office Information

Email: Senator.Blakespear@Senate.ca.gov

Capitol Office

1021 O Street, Suite 7720

Sacramento, CA 95814

Phone: (916) 651-4038

Laguna Hills

24031 El Toro Road, Suite 201A

Laguna Hills, CA 92653

Phone: (949) 598-5850

Encinitas

169 Saxony Road, Suite 209

Encinitas, CA 92024

Phone: (760) 642-0809