View the 2024 Annual Report

SACRAMENTO – Sen. Catherine Blakespear, D-Encinitas, issued the following statement about an arrest made by federal law enforcement in Encinitas outside an elementary school that was captured on video and posted on social media.

“I am horrified by videos I have seen of an apprehension made in my hometown of Encinitas by what appears to be federal police working for ICE. The agents removed a father driving with his family members from the car that he had just pulled over to drop their daughter at school. Agents abruptly separated him from his child and family, without showing identification or providing a warrant, despite repeated requests by his family and the public to see a warrant signed by a judge. There was no reason given for his arrest. They didn’t even allow him to say goodbye to his family members before driving him off in an unmarked vehicle. This is inhumane, barbaric and lawless. We should all be outraged. What this video shows, just like so many other videos, is a police state in which civil liberties and constitutional protections are brushed aside, and that any person can be apprehended on the street without probable cause for arrest. Every person in California and this country should be outraged by the overreach and lack of due process associated with this heavy-handed government action. It could happen to anyone. Our immigrant community is particularly at risk. This is shocking, unacceptable and undemocratic. Each of us needs to use our voices to demand change.”

“I am horrified by videos I have seen of an apprehension made in my hometown of Encinitas by what appears to be federal police working for ICE.

The agents removed a father driving with his family members from the car that he had just pulled over to drop their daughter at school. Agents abruptly separated him from his child and family, without showing identification or providing a warrant, despite repeated requests by his family and the public to see a warrant signed by a judge. There was no reason given for his arrest. They didn’t even allow him to say goodbye to his family members before driving him off in an unmarked vehicle.

This is inhumane, barbaric and lawless. We should all be outraged.

What this video shows, just like so many other videos, is a police state in which civil liberties and constitutional protections are brushed aside, and that any person can be apprehended on the street without probable cause for arrest. Every person in California and this country should be outraged by the overreach and lack of due process associated with this heavy-handed government action. It could happen to anyone. Our immigrant community is particularly at risk.

This is shocking, unacceptable and undemocratic. Each of us needs to use our voices to demand change.”

Elected in 2022, Sen. Blakespear represents Senate District 38, which covers northern San Diego County and part of southern Orange County. To learn more about the district and Sen. Blakespear, visit her Senate website.

Office Information

Email: Senator.Blakespear@Senate.ca.gov

Capitol Office

1021 O Street, Suite 7720

Sacramento, CA 95814

Phone: (916) 651-4038

Laguna Hills

24031 El Toro Road, Suite 201A

Laguna Hills, CA 92653

Phone: (949) 598-5850

Encinitas

169 Saxony Road, Suite 209

Encinitas, CA 92024

Phone: (760) 642-0809

California State Senate | Democratic Caucus © | Privacy Policy | Accessibility Statement