Thursday, June 6, 2024 Contact: Elisa River 559-264-3070 Elisa.Rivera@sen.ca.gov

FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE

Senator Anna M. Caballero Names the Arc of Fresno and Madera Counties

NONPROFIT OF THE YEAR FOR SENATE DISTRICT 14

Fresno/Madera – Senator Anna M. Caballero (D-Merced) has selected Fresno/Madera-based The Arc, as the 2024 California Nonprofit of the Year for Senate District 14.

“The Arc of Fresno and Madera Counties provides individuals with an intellectual or developmental disability the opportunity to succeed in a supportive environment. Clients gain the ability to navigate their world in a way that offers personal choice, decision making and community inclusion. They are an invaluable support system for families and it is my honor to recognize them as the nonprofit of the year. I want to ensure that the Arc of Fresno and Madera counties is properly recognized for their significant contributions to families in my district.” –Senator Anna M. Caballero

“For the past 71 years the Arc of Fresno and Madera Counties has served individuals living with intellectual and developmental disabilities. We understand that equity and inclusion is the key to enriching lives. This remains at the forefront of the agencies mission, vision, and values. Our staff are committed to providing the best person-centered experience, which leads to very positive outcomes for those served.  We are deeply honored to have been selected as non-profit of the year by Senator Anna Caballero.” -Tamica J. Hill, MSOL Executive Director Arc Fresno/ Madera Counties

This is the ninth year of the California Nonprofit of the Year initiative, a statewide effort to highlight the critical role nonprofit organizations play in California. Each year, state legislators choose a nonprofit from their district to be honored throughout the year, including at an annual luncheon at the Capitol in early June.

“Nonprofit organizations touch the lives of millions of Californians in ways that can often go unrecognized. From the childcare program to the soccer team, from the art class to the health clinic, and from the community organizer to the animal shelter – nonprofits improve the lives of all Californians and make our communities stronger,” said Geoff Green, CEO of the California Association of Nonprofits (CalNonprofits ), the sponsor for this initiative. “Nonprofits are also a key economic driver in our state, accounting for 1 in 14 jobs. It’s important to recognize all they do.”

CalNonprofits sponsor the program in partnership with the state Senate and Assembly Select Committees on the Nonprofit Sector. CalNonprofits, the leading policy voice for California’s nonprofit sector, focuses on advocacy, education, and research to build a more powerful and politically engaged nonprofit network across the state.

*Photos attached: Tamica J. Hill, MSOL Executive Director Arc Fresno/ Madera Counties and Cameron Grisham, Director of Vocational Services

For interviews or inquiries, please contact: Elisa Rivera at (559) 264-3070

Senator Anna M. Caballero represents the 14 th Senate District, composed of majority portions of Merced, Fresno and Madera Counties.

* Senator Anna M. Caballero serves as the Interim Representative for the Salinas Valley and San Benito County until 2024 when a newly elected Senator will assume the district

###

Office Information

Capitol

Office

1021 O Street, Suite 7620

Sacramento, CA 95814

Phone: (916) 651-4014

Fresno

District Office

2550 Mariposa Mall, Suite 2016

Fresno, CA 93721

Phone: (559) 264-3070

Merced

510 West Main Street, Suite E

Merced, CA 95340

Phone: (209) 726-5495

California State Senate | Democratic Caucus © | Privacy Policy | Accessibility Statement

Sen. Caballero Names the Arc of Fresno and Madera Counties Nonprofit of the Year