View the 2024 Annual Report

SACRAMENTO – Sen. Catherine Blakespear, D-Encinitas, issued the following statement about plans to redistrict congressional seats in California ahead of next year’s elections.

“As the former Chair of the Senate Elections Committee, I believe foundationally in free and fair elections. President Trump and Republicans are clearly trying to subvert democracy and gain an upper hand in mid-term elections with their redistricting plans in Texas and other states. California has no choice but to counter this effort to help level the national playing field. I embrace and support the work of California’s Citizen Redistricting Commission, and that should be the approach in every state in the nation. But because it is not and other states seek to corrupt democracy with partisan gerrymandering, we would be foolish not to acknowledge what is happening and respond accordingly. Californians shouldn't be disadvantaged by partisan maneuvers in other states. I’m reassured that we will only move forward if Texas or other states actually follow through on proposed changes to congressional districts. If they go low, we have no choice but to respond in kind. California didn’t start this fight, but we must fight back.”

“As the former Chair of the Senate Elections Committee, I believe foundationally in free and fair elections. President Trump and Republicans are clearly trying to subvert democracy and gain an upper hand in mid-term elections with their redistricting plans in Texas and other states. California has no choice but to counter this effort to help level the national playing field.

I embrace and support the work of California’s Citizen Redistricting Commission, and that should be the approach in every state in the nation. But because it is not and other states seek to corrupt democracy with partisan gerrymandering, we would be foolish not to acknowledge what is happening and respond accordingly.

Californians shouldn't be disadvantaged by partisan maneuvers in other states. I’m reassured that we will only move forward if Texas or other states actually follow through on proposed changes to congressional districts. If they go low, we have no choice but to respond in kind. California didn’t start this fight, but we must fight back.”

Elected in 2022, Sen. Blakespear represents Senate District 38, which covers northern San Diego County and part of southern Orange County. To learn more about the district and Sen. Blakespear, visit her Senate website.

Office Information

Email: Senator.Blakespear@Senate.ca.gov

Capitol Office

1021 O Street, Suite 7720

Sacramento, CA 95814

Phone: (916) 651-4038

Laguna Hills

24031 El Toro Road, Suite 201A

Laguna Hills, CA 92653

Phone: (949) 598-5850

Encinitas

169 Saxony Road, Suite 209

Encinitas, CA 92024

Phone: (760) 642-0809

California State Senate | Democratic Caucus © | Privacy Policy | Accessibility Statement