What: Senator Lola Smallwood-Cuevas (D-Los Angeles) invites the public to join her at this Sunday’s Day of the Ancestors: Festival of Masks cultural celebration, where she’ll make a special appearance to announce updates on designating the Historic South LA Black Cultural District . The new cultural district will serve as a hub for South LA landmarks, businesses and institutions – while spotlighting legendary areas, such as the Crenshaw corridor, Leimert Park and Central Avenue – to support its preservation and economic revitalization.

“Black cultural spaces are under attack by the Trump administration, facing increased threats that undermine their critical role in preserving our history and communities,” said Senator Smallwood-Cuevas. “Protecting these spaces by creating a Black Cultural District is needed now more than ever.”

Also during her appearance at Festival of Masks , Senator Smallwood-Cuevas will announce the release of the Historic South LA Black Cultural District Phase I Report , which details the initiative’s early community engagement efforts that centered South LA’s Black community around the vision for the cultural district.

When: Sunday, June 29, 2025

Noon to 5:30 pm

*2:30 pm Senator Smallwood-Cuevas’ Black Cultural District Updates

*B-Roll will be offered for TV & Digital Media Outlets

Where: Leimert Park Plaza

4343 Leimert Park Blvd.

Los Angeles, CA 90008

Who: Senator Lola Smallwood-Cuevas

LA Commons

Dwight Tribble, World Stage

Rhythms of the Village

South LA Residents, Businesses & Organizations

Why: South Los Angeles is home to California’s highest concentration of Black residents, businesses and cultural landmarks. While 14 cultural districts are currently established across the state, none represent historically Black communities. Senator Smallwood-Cuevas, a longtime worker rights and racial equity advocate whose 28 th District includes South LA, championed the creation of the Historic South LA Black Cultural District to preserve the community’s rich history and culture and stimulate economic growth by promoting local Black-owned businesses, creating jobs and drawing tourism. Senator Smallwood-Cuevas secured $3 million in state funding to support the installation of cultural markers and monuments for the proposed cultural district.

Capitol Office

1021 O Street, Suite 6530

Sacramento, CA 95814

Phone: (916) 651-4028

Los Angeles

700 Exposition Park Drive

Los Angeles, CA 90037

Phone: (213) 745-6656

California State Senate | Democratic Caucus © 2025 | Privacy Policy | Accessibility Statement