Newsletter: Sign Up For The Latest Updates

PORTER RANCH, CA – In the face of a proposal by the California Public Utilities Commission to expand the use of Aliso Canyon until at least 2039, elected officials from state and local government, along with community organizers, gathered today to push for a different way forward.  With $71M prioritized for Valley homes, schools and neighborhoods, Senator Henry Stern and Assemblymember Pilar Schiavo, announced this new initiative today.  These funds come from penalties levied on the Gas Company after their mismanagement caused the largest methane disaster in American history in 2015.

Stern and Schiavo shepherded legislation through this fall to deploy these funds immediately through existing local programs that reduce gas demand from the Aliso Canyon gas field, including discounts on upgrades to home heating and cooling systems that run on electricity.

Assemblywoman Pilar Schiavo also emphasized the importance of this funding, stating: "The $71 million investment is a vital step forward for our community so severely impacted by the Aliso Canyon gas leak disaster. For too long, families in Porter Ranch, Chatsworth, Northridge, Granada Hills and the surrounding areas have shouldered the health and environmental burdens of this tragedy. These funds will help to create healthier homes and schools, ensuring a safer and more sustainable future for all families living in the impacted areas and beyond. While I still echo the community’s call for closure of Aliso Canyon, I’m glad we’re directing these funds towards steps in the right direction."

Senator Henry Stern addressed the ongoing challenges and the need for greater accountability in his remarks:

"Today is about putting muscle behind our plan to close Aliso and cutting energy bills at the same time. There is a better way than the CPUC’s current proposal.  Extending this troubled gas site through 2039 would go against clear directives from the Governor, the Legislature, the community and their own staff.  Federal energy regulators still haven't completed their investigation into the gas price spikes of 2022 that Sempra blamed on Aliso, while their energy traders and LNG businesses shipped that gas off to Europe.

There is a better way.  Every time a new home is built without a new gas pipe into it, we reduce our dependence on the Gas Company and Aliso Canyon.  Every time someone replaces an old gas furnace or water heater with a new electric heat pump, they’re going to save money on heating and cooling without gas.  This funding will put the Valley first and empower us to take Aliso’s closure into our own hands."

LG Electronics USA Senior Vice President John I. Taylor spoke about the role of energy-efficient solutions, stating: "Heat pumps represent the future of indoor climate control and comfort, and LG is proud to be an industry leader in bringing these super-efficient, eco-friendly solutions to California customers. Heat pump HVAC systems can make indoor comfort more affordable for more Californians, and our latest systems offer unmatched ‘all-climate’ performance that adapts seamlessly to changes in outdoor temperature without losing functionality or efficiency. We’re committed to doing our part to help California meet its electrification goals, offering consumers not only our award-winning HVAC systems, but also a range of heat pump-enabled water heaters and clothes dryers, as well as induction cooktops and EV chargers."

The proposal includes:

$40 million for strategic and equitable building decarbonization through funding the existing TECH program via the Public Utilities Commission

$14 million for Extreme Heat Resilience, with a priority for senior community centers, via the Office of Planning and Research

$15 million for Green Schoolyards via the Department of Forestry and Fire Protection (CalFire)

$2 million for outreach and education efforts to support electrification through funding the AB 205 Equity & Access Program (or TECH) via the Public Utilities Commission

The Aliso Canyon Disaster Area is defined as the City of Los Angeles communities of Porter Ranch, Granada Hills, Northridge, Chatsworth, North Hills, Canoga Park, Reseda, Winnetka, Lake Balboa, Van Nuys, West Hills.

Office Information

Capitol Office

1021 O Street, Suite 7710 Sacramento, CA 95814 Phone: (916) 651-4027 Fax: (916) 651-4927

District Office

14724 Ventura Blvd., Suite 1115 Sherman Oaks, CA  91403 Phone: (818) 876-3352 Fax: (818) 876-0802