For Immediate Release

Contact: Elisa Rivera

(559) 264-3070 Elisa.Rivera@sen.ca.gov

Senator Anna M. Caballero to Present the City of Madera a Check for $1.45 million for Community Improvement Projects

Madera, CA Senator Anna M. Caballero (D-Merced) will join the City of Madera to present two ceremonial checks for community improvement projects for public safety and outdoor recreation.

Project Overview:

$950,000: For Technology Upgrades to the City of Madera Police Department’s Communication System in the Mobile Command Center.

$500,000: For trail system upgrades for the Lions Town and Country Park. The Lions Town and Country Park is the City of Madera’s largest park that features a 1+ mile trail system, amphitheater, playground and baseball fields. The park is a destination utilized for residents’ physical well-being, and serves as a community hub. Funds will be used to upgrade the trail system that was constructed over 35 years ago and is currently in a state of disrepair.

Total: $1,450,00

“It is important to me to work closely with the Mayor and City Council members to identify priorities and work to get projects funded through the state budget. The funds secured for the City of Madera are vital for the health and well-being of the residents and are an example of what we can accomplish when we all work together to get things done.” –Senator Anna Caballero, Senate District 14

“These contributions will empower the City of Madera to make a lasting impact on public safety, revamp outdoor recreational spaces, and enhance the overall well-being of our community,” said - Mayor Santos Garcia . “These projects are vital for our community, and we greatly the ongoing commitment of Senator Caballero and Assemblymember Soria in helping to build a more vibrant Madera.”

“I want to express my gratitude to Senator Caballero and Assemblymember Soria for their continued support and dedication to the prosperity of Madera. Their efforts in securing funding for these important projects align with our vision for a city that thrives in all aspects, including prioritizing public safety, enriching recreational spaces, and uplifting the overall quality of life for our residents.” –City Manager, Arnoldo Rodriguez

“The Madera Police Department appreciates Senator Caballero’s commitment to public safety by providing additional state funding that will better equip our law enforcement to serve and protect,” said - Chief of Police, Gino Chiaramonte . “These resources will enable our officers to respond more effectively to emergencies, maintain law and order, and work collaboratively with the community to build trust.”

“We extend our deepest gratitude to Senator Caballero and Assemblymember Soria for their advocacy and commitment to our cause,” expressed - Joseph Hebert, Madera Parks & Community Services Director . “This funding will serve as a catalyst, empowering us to elevate the City’s largest and most utilized park, and to enhance our trail system in a way that promotes active lifestyles, fostering community connections, and preserving the natural beauty of our city.”

The Senator’s itinerary is as follows:

1. Madera, CA: Monday November 27, 2023 at 3:00 PM

Who:

Senator Anna Caballero, Senate District 14

City of Madera Mayor, Santos Garcia

City of Madera Mayor Pro-Tem, Elsa Mejia

City of Madera Council Member, Cecelia Gallegos

City of Madera Council Member, Jose Rodriguez

City of Madera Council Member, Steve Montes

City of Madera Council Member, Anita Evans

City of Madera Council Member, Artemio Villegas

City of Madera City Manager, Arnoldo Rodriguez

City of Madera Chief of Police, Gino Chiaramonte

City of Madera Parks & Community Services Director, Joseph Hebert

Location:

Madera City Hall

205 West 4 th Street, Madera, CA 93637

What:

Senator Caballero will present the City of Madera with two (2) ceremonial checks for upgrades to the Lions Town and Country Park Trail System and the Police Department’s Mobile Command Center

For interviews or inquiries, please contact: Elisa Rivera at (559) 264-3070

Senator Anna M. Caballero represents the 14 th Senate District, composed of majority portions of Merced, Fresno and Madera Counties.

* Senator Anna M. Caballero serves as the Interim Representative for the Salinas Valley and San Benito County until 2024 when a newly elected Senator will assume the district

###

Office Information

Capitol

Office

1021 O Street, Suite 7620

Sacramento, CA 95814

Phone: (916) 651-4014

Fresno

District Office

2550 Mariposa Mall, Suite 2016

Fresno, CA 93721

Phone: (559) 264-3070

Merced

510 West Main Street, Suite E

Merced, CA 95340

Phone: (209) 726-5495

California State Senate | Democratic Caucus © | Privacy Policy | Accessibility Statement