Senator Bob Archuleta Recognizes Kim Family for Its 30 Years in Commerce and Its Service in the Armed Forces

January 15, 2020

COMMERCE – The Kim Family has been a part of commemorating the triumphs and special occasions of those living in the city of Commerce for 30 years.  The House of Winners Inc. – a one-stop, custom plaque and trophy shop – has samples of sports, political and personal accomplishments lining its walls and shelves.

Among them are those that highlight the military career of Raymond Kim, one of two sons of John and Myung Kim, the co-owners of House of Winners.

“If it’s one thing I know, is what military families want when they come in looking to design a plaque to honor their loved one’s military service,” John Kim said.  Raymond Kim, who now works for Boeing, is the third generation of men in his family who have served in the Army.

“The Kim Family exemplifies what it means to protect and serve,” Senator Bob Archuleta said. “As a veteran and former paratrooper with the 82nd Airborne, I am grateful for this family’s response to the call of duty.”

John, and his brother, Max Kim, also a Commerce businessman, served in the Republic of Korea Army before they immigrated to the United States, as did their father.  Following the family’s tradition of duty and honor, Raymond Kim was accepted to The U.S. Military Academy at West Point (Class of 2005), and served as a captain in the United States Army Medical Corps.

Raymond Kim deployed to Iraq in 2007 in support of Operation Iraqi Freedom and earned the Bronze Star Medal for exceptional meritorious service.

“Service to our country is in the blood,” he said. “I’m also proud of what my family has accomplished as a business here for 30 years.”

Commerce Councilman Hugo Argumedo commended the Kims for their business acumen.

“They have established themselves as an important a part of the community, playing a big role with kids getting their first trophies,” he said.

Office Information

Capitol Office

1021 O Street, Suite 6620

Sacramento, CA 95814

Phone: (916) 651-4030

District Office

12501 Imperial Hwy. Ste. 110

Norwalk, CA 90650

Phone: (562) 406-1001

California State Senate | Democratic Caucus © 2025 | Privacy Policy | Accessibility Statement

Kim Family Celebrates 30 Years in the City of Commerce