For Immediate Release

Contact: Elisa Rivera

Elisa.Rivera@sen.ca.gov (559) 264-3070

Senator Anna M. Caballero’s 2023-2024 Legislative Package Heads to the Governor’s Desk for Signature

Diverse bill package authored to improve the lives of constituents in Senate District 14 and families throughout California

Sacramento- At the conclusion of this year’s legislative cycle, Senator Anna M. Caballero (D-Merced) announced today the success of her 2023-2024 Legislative Bill Package now headed to the Governor’s desk for his signature.

Senator Caballero carried an aggressive legislative agenda to increase senior housing production, statewide water planning and accountability in dollars earmarked for disadvantaged students. Her package also included an allocation of resources to meet the needs created by two disasters: the closure of Madera Community Hospital and flooding in Planada, in Merced County .

“I am proud of our team’s hard work and dedication to the district needs. Together, we have successfully crafted thoughtful solutions to issues families across California face. I am committed to continue to work to represent residents in my district and ensure that our region has what it needs to thrive.” -Senator Anna Caballero, Senate District 14

2023 – 2024 Bill Package:

SB/AB 112 Financially Distressed Hospital Emergency Loan Program: Creates an emergency loan program for at-risk hospitals seeking to re-open or those at risk of closure.

SB 17 Senior Housing Production: Requires the California Tax Credit Allocation Committee (TCAC) to revise the regulations for low-income housing tax credits (LIHTC) to increase the housing goal to 20% for senior housing.

SB 306 Extreme Heat: Establishes reporting guardrails on the newly funded Direct Install Program at the California Energy Commission and codifies California’s Extreme Heat Action Plan of 2022 to ensure regions, which experience extreme heat, have resources to help residents and to make sure state strategies are updated and made available.

SB 565 CalEITC Filing Enhancement: Improves the CalFile system for low or no income filers to expand access to tax credits like CalEITC and the Young Child Tax Credit.

SB 599 Safe and Secure Visitation: Authorizes Superior Court locations to serve as supervised visitation and exchange locations for custodial visits, as well as clarifies in statute that virtual visitation is appropriate when a restraining order has been issued due to allegations of domestic violence.

SB 609 Supplemental and Concentration Funds Accessibility: Requires School Districts, County Offices of Education (COEs) and charter schools to post the current school year's approved Local Control and Accountability Plans (LCAPs) on the performance overview portion of the California School Dashboard (Dashboard). This ensures the public can access information on how the schools are utilizing special funds awarded to assist at-risk youth.

SB 621 Reducing Prescription Drug Prices for California Patients Act: Increases patient access to certain lower-cost medications in order to reduce healthcare premiums and provide safe and effective treatment options.

SB 657 Geriatric Training for Homeless Service Providers: Requires specialized gerontological (age-related) training for homeless service providers to better prepare them to assist older adults experiencing homelessness.

SB 684 Infill-Level Homeownership Production: Expedites the permitting process to assist in the construction of small homeownership development projects.

SB 699 Non-Compete Agreements: Allows the award of attorney fees and damages to employees who are required to sign an employee contract in violation of California’s long-standing policy against “non-compete” clauses, when the employer threatens to enforce the clause.

SB 149 CEQA Judicial Streamlining: Ensures that energy, transportation, water and semiconductor projects are eligible for expedited judicial review under the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA).

SB 706 Progressive Design-Build: Will allow counties, cities, and special districts to use the Progressive Design-Build (PDB) procurement and delivery method to build infrastructure projects, to expedite construction and reduce costs .

SB 747 Surplus Land Act Reform: Makes numerous improvements to the Surplus Land Act (SLA) giving cities, counties, and special districts clarity on the scope and application of the law to avoid delays and uncertainty for local agencies advancing important public policy priorities.

SB 753 Cannabis Water Theft Penalties: Expands the existing felony of intentionally or with gross negligence causing substantial environmental harm to surface or ground water to those who plant, cultivate, harvests, dry, or processes more than six living cannabis plants without the legally required permits.

SB 800 Advanced Air Mobility, Zero-Emission, and Electrification Aviation Advisory Panel: Creates the Advanced Air Mobility and Aviation Electrification Advisory Panel, to assess the feasibility and readiness of existing infrastructure for air mobility and the development of a three-year prioritized work plan, with pathways for promoting equity and access to advanced air mobility infrastructure.

SB 831 The California Permanent Residency Program: Authorizes the Governor to work with the federal government to establish a program to allow undocumented agricultural workers in California to work legally in the state.

For interviews or inquiries, please contact: Elisa Rivera at (559) 264-3070

Senator Anna M. Caballero represents the 14 th Senate District, composed of majority portions of Merced, Fresno and Madera Counties.

* Senator Anna M. Caballero serves as the Interim Representative for the Salinas Valley and San Benito County until 2024 when a newly elected Senator will assume the district

###

Office Information

Capitol

Office

1021 O Street, Suite 7620

Sacramento, CA 95814

Phone: (916) 651-4014

Fresno

District Office

2550 Mariposa Mall, Suite 2016

Fresno, CA 93721

Phone: (559) 264-3070

Merced

510 West Main Street, Suite E

Merced, CA 95340

Phone: (209) 726-5495

California State Senate | Democratic Caucus © | Privacy Policy | Accessibility Statement