For Immediate Release

Contact: Elisa Rivera

(209) 726-5495 Elisa.Rivera@sen.ca.gov

Senator Anna M. Caballero Announces Legislation for California to Create a Pathway to Permanent Residency Status for Agricultural Workers

Sacramento- Senator Anna M. Caballero (D-Merced) introduced Senate Bill 831 –California Agricultural Worker Permanent Residency Program, to authorize the Governor to work with the Federal Government to create a working group to establish a pilot program that allows agricultural workers to gain a pathway to Permanent Residency Status. The United States is home to the largest immigrant population in the world. While assimilation in the United States is faster than it is in any other country, immigration remains a deeply contentious issue.

California is the top agricultural producing state in the United States, with more than $50 billion in agricultural annual revenue, producing over 13 percent of the U.S. agricultural value. California produces over 400 different commodities, including two-thirds of all fruits, nuts, and more than one-third of all vegetables consumed in the United States. These agricultural commodities, exported globally, are vital to the economy of the state and food security of the country. However, farmers and agricultural producers in California are struggling to find a reliable and consistent workforce, and undocumented workers are still a primary workforce in agriculture and risk deportation by the Federal Government for not having a work permit or “legal” resident status. Undocumented workers exposed to multiple forms of exploitation and unsafe or unsanitary workplace conditions are more reluctant to report that their rights and have been violated because they fear job loss and family separation by deportation.

Undocumented agricultural workers have no access to the disability benefits and social security benefits that they earn and pay into, or subsidize as part of their work in agriculture. During the pandemic, classified as essential workers, they showed up every day to work yet were ineligible to receive unemployment benefits or any other COVID relief granted by the State or Federal Government. They kept us fed, but suffered higher rates of infection and death due to COVID.

“Our country experienced a shortage of many things throughout the pandemic, but fresh fruits and vegetables were not one of them. If we want to truly show our gratitude, and address the disparities faced by our undocumented workforce, then we need to address the issue at the root of the problem. Creating a pathway to permanent residency status allows our undocumented friends, family and neighbors to come out of the shadows, to live lives free of fear and allow them to qualify for the safety net programs that they deserve and pay into. Senate Bill 831 would state the intent of the Legislature to create a partnership with the Federal Government in conjunction with the Governor to create a pathway to legalize an agricultural workforce that are critical to the state’s economy and food security. ” –Senator Anna Caballero

For interviews or inquiries, please contact Elisa Rivera at (209) 726-5495

Senator Anna M. Caballero represents the 14 th Senate District, composed of majority portions of Merced, Fresno and Madera Counties.

* Senator Anna M. Caballero serves as the Interim Representative for the Salinas Valley and San Benito County until 2024 when a newly elected Senator will assume the district

Office Information

Capitol

Office

1021 O Street, Suite 7620

Sacramento, CA 95814

Phone: (916) 651-4014

Fresno

District Office

2550 Mariposa Mall, Suite 2016

Fresno, CA 93721

Phone: (559) 264-3070

Merced

510 West Main Street, Suite E

Merced, CA 95340

Phone: (209) 726-5495

California State Senate | Democratic Caucus © | Privacy Policy | Accessibility Statement