Fresno : Senator Anna M. Caballero (D-Merced) is pleased to name Melissa Morales of Merced County, Dezi Woods-Jones of Madera County and Ginabel M. Lorenzo of Fresno County as Women of the Year for the 14 th Senate District. All three women inspire our community with extraordinary achievements, service and contributions.

“This year, it is my honor to recognize women from Merced, Madera and Fresno Counties for their contributions to the health and well-being of our communities. Through their leadership, public service, dedication and collaborative spirit, we have seen neighborhoods transformed and strengthened. Senate District 14 thrives and is a better place to work and live because of their passionate advocacy.” –Senator Anna Caballero (D-Merced)

Merced County Woman of the Year, Melissa Morales:

Melissa Morales has overcome many obstacles in life. She went from incarceration to becoming a licensed clinical social worker. After losing her son in 2022, she focused on resilience and growth. She drew from her grief, the strength to help others in their healing process. Ms. Morales sponsors indoor soccer programs for families with limited resources. She recently opened a private practice in Merced and works full-time as a therapist for Kaiser Permanente and as an academic advisor for an addiction study program with Intercoast College. Ms. Morales donates her time to the Native American community and currently serves as the council chairperson for Cherokee of the Greater Central Valley. She works hard to integrate Native American culture and language in the community. Ms. Morales has published twice for Counselor Magazine with CCAPP, her most recent publication involves placement considerations for transgender and non-binary populations in addictions treatment.

“I am honored by this incredible award and I want to humbly thank Senator Anna Caballero. It’s been an honor to serve my community as a provider and educator in mental health, addiction and spreading community awareness…I quote the words of Wilma Mankiller, the first woman Chief of my tribe in the Cherokee Nation: ‘Women in leadership roles can help restore balance and wholeness to our communities.’ Together, let us continue to uplift and empower each other and those we serve.” –Melissa Morales, Merced County

Madera County Woman of the Year, Dezie Woods-Jones:

Dezie Woods-Jones, former Oakland City Council member and Vice Mayor, was the first woman to run for Mayor of Oakland.  Professionally, for over 34 years, Ms. Woods-Jones worked for the Peralta Community College district in various leadership roles and retired as the Assistant Chancellor of External Affairs in 2002.

Ms. Woods-Jones has a long history of civic involvement and spent many years working in the Civil Rights Movement with organizations such as the Congress of Racial Equality (CORE), the Black Conference Planning Committee (BCPC) and the Student Non-Violent Coordinating Committee (SNCC).

Ms. Woods-Jones had the honor to work with many well-known Civil Rights Leaders, including Dr. Martin Luther King, Stokley Carmichael (later changing his name to Kwame Ture), Julian Bond and numerous others. In the mid-sixties, she moved from California to Atlanta, GA, where she worked in the south doing voter registration, participating in student sit-ins and national marches, all in the struggle for social justice.

Ms. Woods-Jones is a founding member and the State President of Black Women Organized for Political Action (BWOPA), the oldest, most powerful organization of its kind in California and has served as the organization’s President for over 50 years.

She is the President and CEO of DWJ & Associates Consulting firm specializing in Public Affairs, Governmental Relations, Leadership Training, Civic Engagement, and Event Planning.  DWJ clients have included the National Black Caucus Foundation, A.C. Public Affairs, The Black Wellness and Prosperity Center, Ramsay Group, the Peralta Community College District, Fresno Unified School District, the Oakland Private Industry Council, Fresno Metro Black Chamber and the City of Oakland among others.

Ms. Woods-Jones is married to the Reverend Carl Jones, retired pastor from the AME Church.  They have one adult son, Robert, who recently made his heavenly transition and two beautiful grandchildren.

Ms.Woods-Jones has received hundreds of awards for dedicated community leadership and service.

“I am deeply humbled and honored to express my gratitude to State Senator Anna Caballero for selecting me as "Woman of the Year" for Madera County. Being recognized in this capacity is a testament to the decades I have committed to advancing the representation and empowerment of women, particularly within the San Joaquin Valley and throughout our nation.

As a founding member and State President of BWOPA, the oldest organization of its kind in California, I have spent over 65 years advocating for women's rightful places at decision-making tables. Throughout this journey, I have had the privilege of collaborating with esteemed leaders such as Congresswoman Barbara Lee and Maxine Waters, as well as numerous local and state-level figures, to effect positive change in our communities. Together, we have worked tirelessly to uplift the voices of the vulnerable and marginalized, ensuring they are heard and represented.

I am particularly grateful for Senator Caballero's unwavering leadership and partnership. Her commitment to empowering youth, women, and girls through advocacy, leadership training, and political engagement aligns closely with my own values and goals. Together, we strive to cultivate a new generation of leaders prepared to serve in the public policy arena.” –Dezie Woods-Jones, Madera County

Fresno County, Ginabel M Lorenzo:

Ginabel Miranda Lorenzo is the owner of a business specializing in succulents and houseplants based in Coalinga, CA. She started her business in 2020 and in two years, became the recipient of the Coalinga Chamber of Commerce Business of the Year 2022 Award. It was a fitting recognition for this businesswoman who consistently goes the extra mile to ensure that her customers are 100% satisfied. She appreciates the importance of overall health and well-being having worked as a Registered Nurse (RN) for over 30 years. She was the First Employee of the Month and Superior Accomplishment Awardee RN at the Department of State Hospitals-Coalinga.

Because of her business, Ms. Lorenzo has been involved in several community events, generously giving her time and resources. For the last two years, she sponsored succulent arrangement workshops during the World Autism Awareness Day. She also held the same kind of workshops for senior citizens in the community and for patients and staff at the local hospital. Ginabel opened her garden store to assist in raising funds for families who experienced a tragic loss. Different local organizations have been recipients of her donations, for their fund-raising efforts.

Ms. Lorenzo has been an active member of Coalinga Woman’s Club (CWC) and an Advisor of Coalinga Filipino and Friends Community (CFFC). She helps promote friendship among Filipinos and other residents of Coalinga and her home is open to activities that foster community bonding. She believes in enhancing the lives of others through volunteer service in the community and the world. Not surprisingly, she was nominated as Coalinga Citizen of the Year in 2022.

For Ms. Lorenzo, it is truly rewarding to give back and make a difference in the lives of people in her community.

“Empowered by my diverse roles as a devoted mother, supportive wife, compassionate nurse and driven entrepreneur, I am humbled to have made a positive impact on numerous lives. I believe that success as a woman is not just about personal achievements but also about uplifting others around us and seeing our communities rise.” –Ginabel M. Lorenzo, Fresno County

Women of Distinction:

LaTanya V. Richard, Merced CA

Cynthia Kelly, Merced CA

Marta Garcia, Madera CA

Pam Grewal, Madera CA

Yolanda S. Randles Fresno, CA

Dr. Cassandra Little, Fresno CA Dr. Sonia Relingo, Fresno CA

Details are as follows:

When:

Friday, May 17, 2024

2:00-3:30 PM

Location:

United Way

4949 E. Kings Canyon Rd.

Fresno CA, 93727

For more information:

Fresno DISTRICT OFFICE

(559) 264-3070

2550 Mariposa Mall, Suite 2016

Fresno, CA 93721

Click for more information: 2024 Women Who Inspire

For interviews or inquiries, please contact Elisa Rivera at (559) 264-3070

Senator Anna M. Caballero represents the 14 th Senate District, composed of majority portions of Merced, Fresno and Madera Counties.

* Senator Anna M. Caballero serves as the Interim Representative for the Salinas Valley and San Benito County until 2024 when a newly elected Senator will assume the district

###

Office Information

Capitol

Office

1021 O Street, Suite 7620

Sacramento, CA 95814

Phone: (916) 651-4014

Fresno

District Office

Phone: (559) 264-3070

Merced

510 West Main Street, Suite E

Merced, CA 95340

Phone: (209) 726-5495

California State Senate | Democratic Caucus © | Privacy Policy | Accessibility Statement

​​​​​​​Senator Anna M. Caballero Honors Women of the Year for Senate District 14 and Recognizes Women of Distinction