DOWNEY, CA – Senator Bob Archuleta (D-Pico Rivera) joined SoCalGas, Lieutenant Governor Eleni Kounalakis, Assemblymember Blanca Pacheco, labor leaders and renewable hydrogen fuel partners in the City of Downey, California for the unveiling of the H2 Innovation Experience, the nation’s first-of-its-kind renewable hydrogen Microgrid powered home

“The H2 Innovation Experience hydrogen home demonstrates how renewable hydrogen can be delivered to our homes safely and effectively around the clock. Moreover, this project demonstrates resiliency, by showing California a way to power our homes other than the electric grid. I am thrilled to see a hydrogen project like this, right here in the great City of Downey.”

SoCalGas, the first and largest natural gas utility in the United States to announce its aim to have net zero greenhouse gas emissions by 2045, operates the Energy Resource Center in the city of Downey. Their [H2] Innovation Experience centers on a state-of-the-art microgrid that is producing clean, renewable hydrogen made from solar electricity on-site. The innovations learned on-site by co-locating hydrogen production near the end-uses will improve best practices ranging from distribution to conversion and potential energy losses, and ensure California is prepared to work in tandem with the Clean Hydrogen Hub Program funded by the Federal Department of Energy.

For more information on the H2 Innovation Experience, please visit https://www.socalgas.com/sustainability/h2home

Senator Bob Archuleta currently represents the 30th Senate District, which includes portions of Los Angeles County and Orange County. He is the Chair of the Senate Committee on Military and Veterans Affairs, and a member of the Business, Professions and Economic Development Committee, Government Organization Committee, Transportation Committee, as well as the Joint Legislative Committee on Emergency Management.

###

Office Information

Capitol Office

1021 O Street, Suite 6620

Sacramento, CA 95814

Phone: (916) 651-4030

District Office

12501 Imperial Hwy. Ste. 110

Norwalk, CA 90650

Phone: (562) 406-1001

California State Senate | Democratic Caucus © 2025 | Privacy Policy | Accessibility Statement