BALDWIN PARK, Calif. – Senator Susan Rubio ( D-Baldwin Park ) released the following statement in response to the tragic shooting of two Baldwin Park Police Officers, one of whom has died in the line of duty:

“Today, I am heartbroken. This is not just about losing a police officer in our state – it’s about losing our officer – in my city, in my community, and within my extended family. To me, this department has never been just patches and uniforms. These are my friends. And today, we’ve lost one of our own. I’ve had the honor of working alongside the Baldwin Park Police Department for more than 20 years – first as a Councilwoman, now as a State Senator. Over the years, we have built more than just a working relationship. We’ve built a deep bond rooted in friendship, shared purpose, and love for the community we serve. We’ve stood together, side-by-side, for public safety and better protections for our residents, through moments of challenge and triumph, heartbreak and celebration. That’s why this loss feels so personal – because it is. Officer Samuel Riveros was more than a badge. He was a dedicated public servant, a brave soul who gave his life to keep others safe. My thoughts and prayers remain with the other officer who was also injured and will need our support in the days and weeks ahead. To the family of Officer Riveros: your grief is shared by an entire community. We are with you, and Officer Riveros’ heroism will never be forgotten. I also want to extend my deepest gratitude to every member of law enforcement who continues to serve with honor, especially in times like these. We support you, and we mourn with you. Baldwin Park is grieving, but we will rise together. We will honor our fallen hero not only with words, but with action – with a renewed commitment to protect those who protect us, and to never forget those who gave everything to keep us safe.”

“Today, I am heartbroken. This is not just about losing a police officer in our state – it’s about losing our officer – in my city, in my community, and within my extended family.

To me, this department has never been just patches and uniforms. These are my friends. And today, we’ve lost one of our own.

I’ve had the honor of working alongside the Baldwin Park Police Department for more than 20 years – first as a Councilwoman, now as a State Senator. Over the years, we have built more than just a working relationship. We’ve built a deep bond rooted in friendship, shared purpose, and love for the community we serve.

We’ve stood together, side-by-side, for public safety and better protections for our residents, through moments of challenge and triumph, heartbreak and celebration. That’s why this loss feels so personal – because it is.

Officer Samuel Riveros was more than a badge. He was a dedicated public servant, a brave soul who gave his life to keep others safe. My thoughts and prayers remain with the other officer who was also injured and will need our support in the days and weeks ahead.

To the family of Officer Riveros: your grief is shared by an entire community. We are with you, and Officer Riveros’ heroism will never be forgotten.

I also want to extend my deepest gratitude to every member of law enforcement who continues to serve with honor, especially in times like these. We support you, and we mourn with you.

Baldwin Park is grieving, but we will rise together. We will honor our fallen hero not only with words, but with action – with a renewed commitment to protect those who protect us, and to never forget those who gave everything to keep us safe.”

Office Information

Capitol Office

1021 O St. Suite 8710 Sacramento, CA 95814

Phone: (916) 651-4022 Fax: (916) 651-4922

West Covina Office

100 S. Vincent Ave. Suite 401 West Covina, CA 91790

Phone: (626) 430-2499

Ontario Office

1520E N. Mountain Ave. Building E, Suite 201 Ontario, CA 91762

Phone: (909) 460-6064

California State Senate | Democratic Caucus © | Privacy Policy | Accessibility Statement

Senator Susan Rubio Joins Community in Mourning Fallen Baldwin Park Police Officer, Honors Department’s Service and Sacrifice