SCR 66 declares the importance of the rule of law and honors California’s law firms and judges standing up to the Trump Administration

(Sacramento, CA) – Yesterday, Senator Thomas J. Umberg (D-Santa Ana) introduced Senate Concurrent Resolution 66 to commemorate May 1 st as Law Day in California and recognize the unprecedented attack on the legal system from President Donald J. Trump.

“Law Day isn’t new,” said Senator Umberg.  “It’s been celebrated by the country, courts, schools, youth groups, community organizations, and law schools for over 60 years.  But the rule of law has never been under attack in that time like it is currently,” he noted.  “This unprecedented attack on our nation’s legal institutions – judges and law firms alike – should concern every single American.”

Law Day was originally introduced by President Eisenhower in 1958 as a national dedication to law in government.  Since that time, May 1 st has been recognized over and over again by all levels of government as a day to stop and reflect on the Constitution, our legal system, and the security enshrined by checks and balances.

While normally the President of the United States issues a proclamation on May 1 st recognizing the importance of the rule of law, that act is unlikely to occur this year given President Trump’s actions of the last four months.  Those include:

Executive Order 14230 issued on March 6, 2025 targeting Perkins Coie LLP, revoking their security clearances, denying employees access to federal buildings, and terminating government contracts on the pretext that Perkins Coie LLP implements diversity, equity, and inclusion (DEI) programs and that it aided Hillary Clinton during the 2016 election;

Executive Order 14237 issued on March 14, 2025 targeting Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison LLP similarly revoking clearances, prohibiting access, and terminating contracts because of the presence of DEI programs and the employment of former Special Counsel Robert Mueller who took action against January 6 rioters, and Mark Pomerantz who was the prosecutor for President Trump’s New York fraud case;

A memo dated March 22, 2025 from President Trump to United States Attorney General Pam Bondi and United States Secretary of Homeland Security Kristi Noem directing them to investigate and prosecute firms such as Elias Law Group LLP who aid the President’s political enemies or who provide counsel for immigrants;

Executive Order 14246 issued on March 25, 2025 targeting Jenner & Block LLP similarly revoking clearances, prohibiting access, and terminating contracts because of the presence of DEI programs and the employment of Andrew Weissmann who was involved with former Special Counsel Robert Mueller’s investigation into Russian interference in the 2016 presidential election;

Executive Order 14250 issued on March 27, 2025 targeting Wilmer Cutler Pickering Hale and Dorr LLP similarly revoking clearances, prohibiting access, and terminating contracts because of the presence of DEI programs and the firm’s involvement in former Special Counsel Robert Mueller’s investigation into Russian interference in the2016 presidential election; and

Executive Order 14263 issued on April 9, 2025 targeting Susman Godfrey LLP similarly revoking clearances, prohibiting access, and terminating contracts because of the presence of DEI programs and the firm’s successful case against Fox News for promoting false claims of election fraud;

President Trump’s call for the impeachment of judges who, in upholding the rule of law, have ruled against him and his interests; and

Subsequent resolutions ( H.R. 143 and H.R. 229 ) introduced by members of Congress to impeach judges.

“We’re really living in an incredible time,” said Senator Umberg.  “By all accounts, we appear to be barreling towards the most profound constitutional crisis of our generation. Now, more than ever, it is important to reaffirm our belief in America’s unique system of checks and balances and honor those who work to uphold the rule of law.”

SCR 66 will be heard on the Senate Floor on Thursday, May 1 st .

###

Senator Thomas J. Umberg represents the 34th Senate District, which includes the cities of Anaheim, Buena Park, Fullerton, Garden Grove, La Habra, Long Beach, Orange, Placentia, Santa Ana, and East and South Whittier. Umberg is a retired U.S. Army Colonel, former federal prosecutor, and small businessman. He and his wife, Brigadier General Robin Umberg, USA (ret.), live in Orange County.

Office Information

Capitol Office

1021 O Street, Suite 7510 Sacramento, CA 95814

Phone: (916) 651-4034 Fax: (916) 651-4934

District Office

1000 E. Santa Ana Blvd., Ste. 220B Santa Ana, CA 92701

Phone: (714) 558-3785

California State Senate | Democratic Caucus © | Privacy Policy | Accessibility Statement

Senator Umberg Introduces Law Day Resolution