Senator Cortese joined Santa Clara County Board President Susan Ellenberg and other County Supervisors on Tuesday in announcing a new Adult Residential Treatment Center at 650 South Bascom Avenue. The facility will feature 28 new beds offering behavioral health treatment for people as they transition from intensive care to independent living.

“This new 28-bed Adult Residential Treatment program represents significant progress in meeting the needs of patients who require intensive mental health services. This program will expand the much-needed behavioral health capacity within our community, providing hope for those suffering from severe mental illness and addiction on their path to recovery,” said Senator Cortese (D-San Jose). “This program marks a milestone, but we have a long way to go when it comes to caring for our most vulnerable community members. Our community demands a better mental health system. Let’s continue our momentum in getting all people off the street and into sustainable housing.”

Santa Clara County has made recent progress on adding beds and treatment services that offer a range of services for people suffering from mental health and substance abuse, including intensive and residential options. Since January last year, the County has added 46 beds through contracts, and is currently building 113 more beds on County-owned properties, including the 28 beds at 650 S. Bascom Avenue. Additionally, the Board of Supervisors has dedicated funding for an additional 141 beds.

Senator Cortese is committed to improving mental health care across California. This year, he supported the state Budget Act of 2023 that provided nearly $3 billion into primary care, including a crucial new investment in behavioral health capacity. Last year, he supported the CARE Act, a groundbreaking law to assist individuals suffering from untreated serious mental disorders like schizophrenia with court-ordered treatment plans, with the intention of preventing unnecessary hospitalizations and incarcerations.

In 2021, Senator Cortese was appointed to the California Mental Health Services Oversight and Accountability Commission, which identifies and provides new forms of mental health care. Last year, Senator Cortese secured $205 million in the state budget to augment the Mental Health Student Services Act grant program. The state funding allows millions of California children to receive mental health and emotional support through the School-Linked Services framework that Senator Cortese spearheaded in Santa Clara County. The framework allows credentialed professionals to meet the needs of students directly at their school site.

Senator Dave Cortese represents Senate District 15, which encompasses much of Santa Clara County in the heart of Silicon Valley. Visit Senator Cortese’s website: https://sd15.senate.ca.gov

Office Information

Capitol Office

1021 O Street Suite 7520 Sacramento, CA 95814

Phone: (916) 651-4015 Fax: (916) 651-4915

San Jose Office

1155 Meridian Avenue Suite 100 San Jose, CA 95125

Phone: (408) 723-4154 Fax: (408) 723-4159

California State Senate | Democratic Caucus © 2025 | Privacy Policy | Accessibility Statement

Senator Cortese Joins Ribbon Cutting for New Adult Behavioral Health Treatment Center