WHAT: On Wednesday, State Senator Dave Cortese (D-San Jose) will host a free, public Zoom briefing for the California Legislature on climate restoration , a critical third pillar alongside climate mitigation and adaptation. Hear from expert speakers about what critical actions are needed to effectively combat climate change.

WHO:

State Senator Dave Cortese, Senate District 15

Peter Fiekowsky, Founder of the Foundation for Climate Restoration

Carole Douglis, Award-winning Journalist and Coauthor of Climate Restoration: The Only Future That Will Sustain the Human Race

WHEN: Wednesday, August 16, 12:30 p.m. to 1:30 p.m.

WHERE: Register for Zoom: www.tinyurl.com/ClimateRestorationCA

RSVP: Media can RSVP to allen.young@sen.ca.gov . We ask that media RSVP in advance of the event.

Background:

California took a bold step with the passage of SR 34 from Senator Dave Cortese, recognizing the obligation to restore a safe climate and prioritizing climate restoration as a policy goal for the state. SR-34 calls upon the U.S. to propose an international climate treaty to restore and stabilize greenhouse gas levels. Climate justice, reduced wildfire impacts, and economic benefits are some of the promising outcomes that can be achieved through this historic resolution.

“Tackling the climate crisis requires a collective global effort, but it all begins with individuals uniting in their communities and taking incremental steps for a cleaner environment. These local collaborations link together across regions and countries and grow into a powerful worldwide movement to mitigate climate change,” said Senator Dave Cortese (D-San Jose). “SR-34 calls on the state and nation to recognize climate restoration as an essential tool in our pursuit of global environmental justice and climate change resilience.”

"Climate restoration" means restoring concentrations of carbon dioxide (CO2) back to safe levels that have historically supported human survival. To achieve this, about one trillion tons of old CO2 must be removed from the atmosphere. Restoration can be achieved by imitating natural processes that remove CO2. Examples include boosting the creation of limestone and the growth of underwater plants that encourage photosynthesis, which cools the earth. These methods are relatively affordable and have the potential to remove all the world's “legacy CO2,” or human-caused CO2 that has accumulated over time, by 2050.

Join us on Wednesday to learn about the climate restoration movement to secure a sustainable future for generations ahead.

###

Office Information

Capitol Office

1021 O Street Suite 7520 Sacramento, CA 95814

Phone: (916) 651-4015 Fax: (916) 651-4915

San Jose Office

1155 Meridian Avenue Suite 100 San Jose, CA 95125

Phone: (408) 723-4154 Fax: (408) 723-4159

California State Senate | Democratic Caucus © 2025 | Privacy Policy | Accessibility Statement

Senator Cortese to Host Legislative Briefing on Climate Restoration