Sacramento, CA – Senator Bob Archuleta, (Pico Rivera) is pleased to announce the selection of Cástulo de la Rocha, President and CEO of AltaMed Health Services Corporation and a resident of the 30th Senate District, as a recipient of the 2024 Latino Spirit Awards.

Mr. de la Rocha was selected by the California Latino Legislative Caucus for his work in health care. All the recipients were recognized on May 6, 2024 at the State Capitol.

“I was honored to nominate Cástulo de la Rocha for his work and compassionate leadership in the health care sector,” Senator Archuleta said. “In a field where access to quality care and representation are paramount, he has worked tirelessly to improve health outcomes, and advocate for equitable treatment for everyone, including marginalized communities.”

Under Mr. de la Rocha’s leadership, AltaMed has transformed from a storefront barrio clinic in East Los Angeles into one of the largest Federally Qualified Health Centers in the nation, with over 5,000 employees and more than 75 sites across Southern California.

AltaMed provides essential health and human services to more than 500,000 patients annually.

Mr. de la Rocha serves on several boards and his “whole community” approach to health care has earned him numerous awards and honors.

Every year, the California Latino Legislative Caucus (CLLC) presents the Latino Spirit Award to prominent Latinos in technology, journalism & media, literature, health & science, advocacy, business, education, human rights, arts, public service, and entertainment. Each honoree has made pioneering contributions in their respective fields, rising to become role models and community leaders.

The CLLC is under the leadership of Chair Assemblymember Sabrina Cervantes (58th AD) and Vice Chair Senator Lena Gonzalez (33rd SD).

Senator Bob Archuleta currently represents the 30th Senate District, which includes portions of Los Angeles County and Orange County. He is the Chair of the Senate Committee on Military and Veterans Affairs, and a member of the Business, Professions and Economic Development Committee, Government Organization Committee, Transportation Committee, as well as the Joint Legislative Committee on Emergency Management. Website of Senator Bob Archuleta: https://sd30.senate.ca.gov/ .

Office Information

Capitol Office

1021 O Street, Suite 6620

Sacramento, CA 95814

Phone: (916) 651-4030

District Office

12501 Imperial Hwy. Ste. 110

Norwalk, CA 90650

Phone: (562) 406-1001

California State Senate | Democratic Caucus © 2025 | Privacy Policy | Accessibility Statement