Senator Bob Archuleta Raises Alarm over Arrest and Detention of U.S. Citizen by ICE and CBP in the 30 th Senate District

NORWALK, CA – Senator Bob Archuleta (D-Pico Rivera) issued the following statement in response to the arrest and detention of Adrian Andrew Martinez, a 20-year-old U.S. citizen and constituent, by Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) and Customs and Border Protection (CBP) during an immigration raid in his district:

“I am deeply concerned with the arrest and ongoing detention of my constituent, Adrian Andrew Martinez, a 20-year-old U.S. citizen, who was detained during a recent immigration raid in the City of Pico Rivera,” Senator Archuleta said.

“I have spoken with his mother and assured her I have put a team together to assist her family during this trying time. “ I have obtained his birth certificate and submitted it to Sheriff’s officials and federal agencies to prove his citizenship, and to request his immediate release,” Senator Archuleta said. “An attorney has also been provided, pro bono, to work on Adrian’s release from custody. As of Thursday evening, the family has no knowledge of any federal charges filed in this matter.

“There are a multitude of eyewitnesses who say Adrian was observing the actions of ICE and CBP agents during a work break in the business’ parking lot. These actions by the Federal Government raise serious civil rights concerns, including possible racial profiling and questionable procedures in detaining someone.

“These enforcement actions have instilled alarm throughout our community. No one should live in constant fear of being wrongfully targeted. I will continue working with my Congressional colleague, U.S. Representative Linda Sánchez and my state colleagues in pressing federal agencies for accountability and justice.

“I remind the public that local law enforcement are not affiliated with ICE and CBP, and are not conducting the raids. If anyone is a victim of a crime or has any issue concerning personal safety, please call either your local police and sheriff’s department.

Since the Trump Administration’s ordering of ICE and CBP agents into communities across the nation, the 30 th Senate District has seen raids in the Cities of Downey, Pico Rivera, Montebello, Santa Fe Springs and Whittier. A number of people have been detained and/or arrested at businesses, schools, on public streets, and places of worship, causing fear and outrage among the majority of the population in the district.

“The Martinez family has asked me to convey their gratitude for the outpouring of support from the public,” Senator Archuleta said.

Senator Archuleta and his staff will continue to closely monitor the situation and team with U.S. Representative Linda Sánchez and Assemblymembers Lisa Calderon and Blanca Pacheco to advocate for the immediate release of Mr. Martinez, as well as the protection of civil liberties for all residents.

Senator Bob Archuleta currently represents the 30th Senate District, which includes portions of Los Angeles County and Orange County. He is the Chair of the Senate Committee on Military and Veterans Affairs, and a member of the Business, Professions and Economic Development Committee, Government Organization Committee, Transportation Committee, as well as the Joint Legislative Committee on Emergency Management. Website of Senator Bob Archuleta: https://sd30.senate.ca.gov/

Office Information

Capitol Office

1021 O Street, Suite 6620

Sacramento, CA 95814

Phone: (916) 651-4030

District Office

12501 Imperial Hwy. Ste. 110

Norwalk, CA 90650

Phone: (562) 406-1001

California State Senate | Democratic Caucus © 2025 | Privacy Policy | Accessibility Statement