SACRAMENTO, CA – Senator Ben Allen (D-Santa Monica) celebrated Resilient Palisades in Sacramento as the 24 th Senate District’s Nonprofit of the Year!

“Resilient Palisades’ years of work advancing climate-resilient and other environmental initiatives have positioned them to be a great leader in our smart rebuilding efforts, and they have taken to this role with great poise and diligence,” said Senator Allen. “I am proud to be able to celebrate their work by recognizing them as our well-deserved Nonprofit of the Year.”

Resilient Palisades was founded in 2019 to promote best climate and environmental practices that may be implemented across entire communities. Through grassroots efforts, the volunteer-led organization helps educate the public and provides resources to transition toward sustainable practices and cleaner alternatives, such as electric garden equipment, renewable energy sources, reusable products, water conservation projects, and more.

In the wake of the devastating Palisades Fire in January, Resilient Palisades sprang into action to not only aid in the direct recovery and relief efforts, but provide guiding principles for reimagining and rebuilding a more climate resilient neighborhood and region. Through community engagement and collaborating with local experts and wildfire recovery groups, the organization is advancing a vision for rebuilding the region with fire-resilient designs and material, implementing water reuse and security measures, and developing renewable energy systems and microgrid projects for a clean, reliable utility infrastructure.

Aleksandar Pavlovic, President of Resilient Palisades, joined Senator Allen in Sacramento to accept the award on behalf of the organization during the Legislature’s annual Nonprofit of the Year luncheon event.

“Many of us at Resilient Palisades have experienced heartbreaking loss— our homes destroyed and memories burned. But true to our name, we are resilient,” said Pavlovic. “Standing with our community, we’re committed to joining our lawmakers and legislators to rebuild stronger, safer, and more sustainably. Our rebuilding plan emphasizes that sustainability is the foundation of insurability. That means fire-resilient construction and design, native landscaping, full electrification of all new homes and businesses, and restoring the land through bioremediation and water conservation. We can transform this tragedy into an opportunity—to create a vibrant, resilient, and insurable community prepared for the reality of longer and drier wildfire seasons.”

Office Information

Capitol Office

1021 O Street, Suite 6610

Sacramento, CA 95814

Phone: (916) 651-4024

Fax: (916) 951-4924

Email: Senator.Allen@senate.CA.gov

District Office

111 Penn Street, Suite 101

El Segundo, CA 90245

Phone: (310) 414-8190

Fax: (310) 414-8195

Email: Senator.Allen@Senate.CA.gov

California State Senate | Democratic Caucus © | Privacy Policy | Accessibility Statement

Senator Allen Celebrates Resilient Palisades as Nonprofit of the Year