SACRAMENTO -  Senator Cortese’s SB 494 would give cafeteria workers, counselors, nurses, janitors and others in California’s public schools and community colleges basic disciplinary due process and appeal rights now granted to teachers and community college faculty.

The bill today was passed by the state Senate and moves forward to the Assembly.

“Classified employees are key to keeping our schools up and running and they deserve due process, rights to a hearing and the presentation of evidence including witness testimony, documents and other relevant materials. After the hearing and decision, the classified employee also should have the right to appeal the decision to a higher authority within the district,” said California State Senator Dave Cortese, who earlier served on a San Jose school board.

A classified employee discipline hearing is a formal process where a permanent classified employee in a school district or government agency is given the opportunity to defend themselves against disciplinary actions proposed by an employer. Those actions include potential suspension, demotion or termination with the right to present evidence and challenge the accusations before a designated employee.

“Classified employees are the backbone of our TK-12 schools and community colleges. They ensure schools are clean, that children are fed and arrive to school safely. However, most classified employees are denied basic disciplinary appeal rights that are granted to teachers and community college faculty. We thank Senator Cortese for reintroducing this important piece of legislation and remain committed to ensuring our members receive fair disciplinary appeal hearings,” said Adam Weinberger, California School Employee Association President.

###

Office Information

Capitol Office

1021 O Street Suite 7520 Sacramento, CA 95814

Phone: (916) 651-4015 Fax: (916) 651-4915

San Jose Office

1155 Meridian Avenue Suite 100 San Jose, CA 95125

Phone: (408) 723-4154 Fax: (408) 723-4159

California State Senate | Democratic Caucus © 2025 | Privacy Policy | Accessibility Statement

Senator Cortese’s Bill to Give School Nurses, Cafeteria Workers   And Other Classified School Employees Due Process Like Teachers   Passes the Senate & Heads to the Assembly