SACRAMENTO –Today, the California State Senate voted to pass AB 74, the Budget Act of 2019. The budget makes critical investments to assist and protect vulnerable Californians and individuals with needs for, mental health services, early childhood education, K-12 education, and a college education. In addition, the budget invests in workforce development, housing and homelessness, and access to clean drinking water and health care. “I am pleased that the budget reflects the values that are important in my district such as clean water and housing,” said state Senator Anna Caballero (D-Salinas).

Among its numerous provisions, the budget places significant funds in the state rainy day fund, provides $130 million annually for safe and clean drinking water, expand Medi-Cal coverage for more low-income and middle-class Californians, and provides more opportunities to attend the state’s colleges and universities.

“I am proud of the work of the Legislature to address the water crisis in our state,” added Caballero (D-Salinas).  “1 million people currently lack access to clean drinking water, and this budget will ensure the right to clean drinking water for everyone.”

During the budget negotiations, Senator Caballero championed efforts to increase funding for the widely successful California Violence, Intervention and Prevention program (CalVIP), a program designed to address gang and gun violence in local communities. Caballero was successful in securing budget language that guarantees that “rural areas” receive at least 10 percent of total program funding. Additionally, she championed funding for a farmworkers health study in the state to help create a pathway to fund health services in rural communities. Additionally, Caballero appropriated $35 million from the General Fund for the development of Workforce Education and Training Programs to increase access to mental health services in rural areas.  “I am grateful to my colleagues in the Legislature for supporting my efforts fund programs in rural communities,” stated Sen. Caballero (D-Salinas). “This includes $5 million to fund a new soccer complex in the City of Salinas and $5 million for the City of Los Banos to construct a new fire station and emergency operations center.”

Californians should be reassured that the budget dedicates the vast majority of available resources to paying debt, building reserves, and supporting projects that do not require ongoing funding.

“The 2019 budget strikes an appropriate balance to ensure our state’s fiscal stability with the largest reserves in the history of the state,” stated Senator Caballero (D-Salinas). “By prioritizing investments, the budget will address the pressing needs of the state.”

Senator Anna M. Caballero represents the 12th Senate District, composed of Merced and San Benito Counties, the Salinas Valley, and portions of Fresno, Madera, and Stanislaus Counties.

Office Information

Capitol

Office

1021 O Street, Suite 7620

Sacramento, CA 95814

Phone: (916) 651-4014

Fresno

District Office

2550 Mariposa Mall, Suite 2016

Fresno, CA 93721

Phone: (559) 264-3070

Merced

510 West Main Street, Suite E

Merced, CA 95340

Phone: (209) 726-5495

California State Senate | Democratic Caucus © | Privacy Policy | Accessibility Statement

Senator Caballero’s Statement on the Passage of the 2019-2020 Budget