Senator Anna M. Caballero’s 2024 Legislative Package

Diverse bill package authored to improve the lives of constituents in Senate District 14 and families throughout California

Sacramento- Senator Anna M. Caballero (D-Merced) has introduced a broad legislative agenda to support working families and seniors. Her legislative proposals would increase senior housing production, protect survivors of sexual assault, create a viable water plan that better equips California to manage drought and climate change, set the highest global emission standard in the world for hydrogen fuel, greatly expand hydrogen production and produce high-wage jobs.

2024 Bill Package:

SB 37             Older Adults and Adults with Disabilities Housing Stability Act: Provides a rent subsidy targeted to older adults and adults with disabilities who are homeless or are at high risk of experiencing homelessness. The bill will establish a pilot program to administer and offer competitive grants to nonprofit organizations, continuums of care, and other organizations. Grantees will be selected with the resources, expertise, and cultural specificity to provide assistance and will prioritize communities where a high proportion of renters face cost burdens.

SB 225           Community Anti-displacement and Preservation Program (CAPP): Creates CAPP, which creates the framework and technical assistance program within The Housing and Community Development Department to assist with the acquisition and rehabilitation of market rate units and conversion to deed-restricted affordable rental units.

SB 366           California Water for All: Revises and recasts the California Water Plan, updating its provisions in order to identify infrastructure and regional planning needed to address the extreme climate impacts of the 21st century.

SB 632           Candidate Statements: Candidates that run in an election that covers more than one county, may submit their candidate statement for approval to the Secretary of State. Once approved, that candidate statement may be shared with all county elections offices without the need for further revision.

SB 768           Vehicle Miles Traveled Study: This bill will require the California Air Resources Board (CARB) to conduct a study to determine how vehicle miles traveled is used as a metric in rural or suburban regions of the state for measuring transportation impacts pursuant to the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA).

SB 785           Ticket Sales Consumer Protections: Enacts reforms that places consumers and entertainers first by: Imposing ticket price transparency and full fee disclosures on all ticket sellers across all platforms. Ending the outrageous practice of speculative ticketing by imposing easily enforceable rules to reduce consumer price gouging and penalizes ticket sellers and platforms who list speculative tickets. Establishing penalties for deceptive URLs to lure consumers into buying tickets at inflated prices. Establishing serious penalties for employing bots that allow professional scalpers to hoard tickets and engage in large-scale scalping, depriving consumers of access to face value tickets.

SB 1123        Small Lot Homeownership Production

This bill will provide technical clean-up to SB 684 which was enacted last year to create an administration pathway to build small housing units on infill parcels.

SB 1140        Enhanced Infrastructure Financing District (EIFD) and Climate Resiliency District (CRD) Streamlining: The current process to form an EIFD, or for a CRD to use tax-increment financing, is cumbersome and costly, taking up to a year to complete. This bill reforms EIFD and CRD law to streamline formation process and expand the types of projects these tools can finance.

SB 1303        Third Party Labor Law Verifiers on Public Works Contracts: This proposal would define oversight on third party verifiers contracted by local governments to ensure compliance with state labor code. Specifically, the bill would require:

A meet and confer between the contractor and third party verifier prior to any hold on funds paid to the contractor for work performed;

establish a timeline for local governments on how long funds can be held until the contractor becomes verified that they are in compliance with state law; and

Establish a conflict of interest provision to prohibit a third party verifier from having a current contractual relationship with a contractor that is performing a public works contract concurrently.

SB 1386        Sexual Assault Evidence: This bill clarifies Rape Shield Laws barring the admission of the plaintiff’s history of sexual conduct (either consensual or non-consensual) as evidence to prove consent or an “absence of damages”.

SB 1390        Flood Diversion and Groundwater Recharge: This bill builds upon the progress made in the past year. Enables diversion of excess flood flows for groundwater recharge by clarifying when these flows may be captured for the benefit of aquifers, what planning requirements are necessary for local agencies pursuing recharge and an expansion of the reporting requirements for diversions made under existing law.

SB 1420        Clean, Renewable Hydrogen: This bill requires the California Air Resources Board (CARB) to adopt renewable hydrogen standards for the production and sale of hydrogen. Adds renewable hydrogen to the types of renewable energy for the RPS program, and removes the CEQA streamlining exclusion for hydrogen and biomass administrative record and judicial review. Allows hydrogen and biomass facilities to be certified as environmental leadership development projects.

SB 1432        Seismic Relief: This bill will extend the timeline for hospitals to meet the 2030 seismic requirements and require new plans to ensure patient continuity is intact and new reporting requirements to enhance transparency and accountability.

SB 1481        Claims against the state: This bill will serve as the annual appropriation for claims made against the state. The bill is currently in a spot format as those claims have not yet been determined.

For interviews or inquiries, please contact: Elisa Rivera at 559-264-3070

Senator Anna M. Caballero represents the 14 th Senate District, composed of majority portions of Merced, Fresno and Madera Counties.

* Senator Anna M. Caballero serves as the Interim Representative for the Salinas Valley and San Benito County until 2024 when a newly elected Senator will assume the district

Office Information

Capitol

Office

1021 O Street, Suite 7620

Sacramento, CA 95814

Phone: (916) 651-4014

Fresno

District Office

2550 Mariposa Mall, Suite 2016

Fresno, CA 93721

Phone: (559) 264-3070

Merced

510 West Main Street, Suite E

Merced, CA 95340

Phone: (209) 726-5495

California State Senate | Democratic Caucus © | Privacy Policy | Accessibility Statement