Pomona, CA –As part of the national celebration of Hispanic Heritage Month, Senator Bob Archuleta (D-Pico Rivera) proudly recognized the achievements of two outstanding educational community leaders, Provost S. Terri Gomez and Associate Professor Álvaro Huerta, for their exceptional contributions to the Cal Poly Pomona community and the people of California.

Senator Archuleta, honored Gomez and Huerta in a ceremony preceding his public lecture at the campus on Wednesday, September 25.

“Provost Gomez and Professor Huerta exemplify the very best of what it means to serve others,” Senator Archuleta said. “Their work is especially important to the Latino and Hispanic communities, where their success represents hope and opportunity for countless others. It is my honor to celebrate their achievements during Hispanic Heritage Month and highlight the incredible impact they have had in the areas of education, equity, and social justice.”

National Hispanic Heritage Month is celebrated across the country from September 15 to October 15 honoring the histories, cultures, and contributions of Hispanic and Latino Americans.

“This month serves as an opportunity to acknowledge leaders, like Provost Gomez and Professor Huerta, who have made remarkable strides in advancing social justice, education, and community empowerment,” Senator Archuleta said.

Gomez, Associate Provost and Vice President for Academic Affairs at Cal Poly Pomona, has been a lifelong advocate for underserved students and a leader in advancing educational access and equity. Her efforts have paved the way for future generations of students from diverse backgrounds to achieve academic success and professional growth.

“Our students at Cal Poly Pomona are some of the most resilient people I have ever met. I recognize their desire to better themselves, their families and their communities as my own,” Dr. Gomez said. “Being able to create meaningful educational opportunities for our Latinx students has been an immense privilege. I am deeply honored to be recognized and receive this award.”

Huerta, the son of working-class Mexican immigrants, is Associate Professor of Urban & Regional Planning and Ethnic & Women’s Studies at Cal Poly Pomona, and is a well-respected scholar, community activist, and published author. His research and advocacy focus on social justice, immigration, and improving the quality of life for marginalized communities across California. Dr. Huerta’s commitment to uplifting communities and creating pathways for immigrant populations has earned him national recognition.

“I’m happily surprised and honored to be recognized, along with Provost S. Terri Gomez, by State Senator Bob Archuleta as a Latina/o Education Leader,” Dr. Huerta said. “Given that Latina/o students represent an estimated 50 percent of Cal Poly Pomona’s student body, it’s imperative that we recognize and celebrate the contributions of Latinas/os to our campus and society not only during Latina/o Heritage Month, but also throughout the year.”

Senator Bob Archuleta currently represents the 30th Senate District, which includes portions of Los Angeles County and Orange County. He is the Chair of the Senate Committee on Military and Veterans Affairs, and a member of the Business, Professions and Economic Development Committee, Governmental Organization Committee, Transportation Committee, as well as the Joint Legislative Committee on Emergency Management. Website of Senator Bob Archuleta: https://sd30.senate.ca.gov/ .

###

Office Information

Capitol Office

1021 O Street, Suite 6620

Sacramento, CA 95814

Phone: (916) 651-4030

District Office

12501 Imperial Hwy. Ste. 110

Norwalk, CA 90650

Phone: (562) 406-1001

California State Senate | Democratic Caucus © 2025 | Privacy Policy | Accessibility Statement