Thursday, January 19, 2023

For Immediate Release

Contact:

Elisa Rivera

(209) 726-5495 Elisa.Rivera@sen.ca.gov (Caballero)

Nate Albee at Nate.Albee@asm.ca.gov (Haney)

Senator Anna M.  Caballero and Assembly member Matt Haney Introduce SB 225 to Acquire and Keep Homes Affordable for Low-Income Californians Across the State

SB 225 will prevent low-income families from displacement and falling into homelessness and increase the supply of affordable homes for the next 55 years.

SACRAMENTO : Senator Anna M. Caballero (D-Merced) and Assembly member Matt Haney (D-San Francisco) introduced SB 225, which creates the Community Anti-Displacement and Preservation Program (CAPP). CAPP will finance the acquisition of existing housing in order to preserve it as affordable for low-income residents. CAPP will prevent displacement and homelessness by stabilizing low-income families in their communities, while also investing in the supply of affordable homes for the future.

“California’s affordable housing crisis continues to worsen and unsubsidized affordable housing is rapidly disappearing from the market. As this housing disappears, fewer and fewer low-income families can find a place to call home because current housing production simply cannot meet demand. SB 225 creates a new program to assist with the acquisition and rehabilitation of existing unsubsidized housing and converting it to long-term affordable housing which will provide immediate relief to low-income families. I am excited to work with Assembly member Haney and the Stable Homes Coalition to move this bill and the $500 million budget request to support the new program. SB 225 is one important step to avoid displacement and homelessness, and ensure families throughout the state can remain in their communities in homes they can afford.” Senator Anna M Caballero (D-Merced)

“California’s housing crisis is getting worse because we are re not building homes fast enough,” said Assembly member Haney (D-San Francisco) . “We have the opportunity to preserve affordable homes and ensure they remain accessible to low income renters.” Assembly member Matt Haney (D-San Francisco)

“Across Los Angeles and California, low-income families are struggling to afford skyrocketing rents – too often facing housing instability and homelessness. We are fortunate to have a robust and growing collaboration of community-based organizations, affordable housing developers, and public sector partners who are doing innovative work to acquire properties off the private market and stabilize families in affordable housing for the long term. But state resources are needed to bring this work to scale, and CAPP fills a much-needed capital gap to create more affordable housing quickly and efficiently that will deliver dividends to our communities for years to come.” Jimar Wilson, VP and Southern California Market Leader, Enterprise Community Partners

“More than half of the affordable rental housing in the US is provided without subsidy in the private market ( citation ). In California, that is nearly 1.1 million units.  An investment in CAPP gives us a new tool to bring permanent affordability for renters at-risk of being priced out of their communities. It allows the state to bring affordable units online more quickly by leveraging our existing housing stock” – Chione Lucina Muñoz Flegal, Executive Director, Housing California

“Too often, decisions about housing investments and community development are made without the input of our neighbors who will be most impacted by those decisions. Centering the voices and needs of local community members is critical to addressing decades of disinvestment, redlining, and other inequitable housing policies," said Andrés Ramos, Legislative Counsel, Public Advocates . "CAPP is a critical tool and one solution to address California’s ongoing affordable housing crisis. This investment will empower local communities, by providing these communities with state resources to prioritize affordable housing investments that meet local needs."

For interviews or inquiries, please contact Elisa Rivera at Elisa.Rivera@sen.ca.gov for Senator Caballero and Nate Albee at Nate.Albee@asm.ca.gov for Assembly member Haney.

Senator Anna M. Caballero represents the 14th Senate District, composed of Merced, Madera, and Fresno Counties.

Assembly member Matt Haney represents the 17th Assembly District encompassing the eastern side of San Francisco.

For interviews or inquiries, please contact Elisa Rivera at (209) 726-5495

Senator Anna M. Caballero represents the 14 th Senate District, composed of majority portions of Merced, Fresno and Madera Counties.

Office Information

Capitol

Office

1021 O Street, Suite 7620

Sacramento, CA 95814

Phone: (916) 651-4014

Fresno

District Office

2550 Mariposa Mall, Suite 2016

Fresno, CA 93721

Phone: (559) 264-3070

Merced

510 West Main Street, Suite E

Merced, CA 95340

Phone: (209) 726-5495

California State Senate | Democratic Caucus © | Privacy Policy | Accessibility Statement

Senator Anna M.  Caballero and Assembly member Matt Haney Introduce SB 225 to Acquire and Keep Homes Affordable for Low-Income Californians Across the State