SACRAMENTO, CA – Senator Bob Archuleta (D-Pico Rivera) is calling on Californians to stand up for the state’s disabled veterans by voicing their support for Senate Bill 296 , a vital measure that would provide a full property tax exemption for veterans with a 100% disability rating .

Senator Archuleta encourages all Californians – especially veterans, their families, and advocates – to contact their state legislators and express support for this critical legislation as it moves through the Senate and Assembly.

“ This legislation is a matter of dignity and stability for those who have sacrificed the most for our state and the nation, ” said Senator Archuleta, Chair of the Senate Committee on Military and Veterans Affairs and an Army combat veteran. “ It’s time we do more to ensure our disabled veterans, many of whom are living on fixed incomes, are not left behind. SB 296 is one way we can honor their service and help them stay in their homes. ”

This bill expands the current Disabled Veterans’ Property Tax Exemption to allow a full exemption for homeowners who are 100 percent disabled veterans . Several other states – including Florida, Texas, Virginia, New Mexico, and Hawaii – already waive property taxes for veterans with total and permanent disabilities. California must now rise to meet that same standard.

California is home to nearly one-quarter of the nation’s homeless veterans. According to data from the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) and the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA), over 11,000 veterans are currently experiencing homelessness in California – more than any other state.

“ This is unacceptable,” Archuleta said. “ SB 296 is one step toward reducing homelessness and providing much-needed relief for those who honorably served this country. ”

For more detailed information and to follow the bill’s progress, visit Senator Archuleta’s website .

###

Office Information

Capitol Office

1021 O Street, Suite 6620

Sacramento, CA 95814

Phone: (916) 651-4030

District Office

12501 Imperial Hwy. Ste. 110

Norwalk, CA 90650

Phone: (562) 406-1001

California State Senate | Democratic Caucus © 2025 | Privacy Policy | Accessibility Statement