FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Monday March 17, 2025

Contact: Elisa Rivera

Elisa.Rivera@sen.ca.gov (559) 264-3070

Senator Anna M. Caballero Honors Rosa Maria Hernandez-Bautista, Senate District 14 Woman of the Year

Sacramento, CA – Senator Anna M. Caballero (D-Merced) proudly named Rosa Maria Hernandez-Bautista the 2025 Woman of the Year for Senate District 14, in recognition of her outstanding leadership and contributions to the community. In a special ceremony at the State Capitol, Senator Caballero presented Mrs. Hernandez-Bautista with a formal Resolution, celebrating her dedication to uplift Indigenous immigrant communities in the Central Valley.

The annual Woman of the Year event organized by the California Legislative Women’s Caucus, honors exceptional women chosen by members of the Assembly and Senate who have made significant contributions in their communities. Mrs. Hernandez-Bautista, a proud Mixtec Indigenous leader from Madera, California, embodies the spirit of resilience, advocacy and cultural preservation.

“Rosa Maria Hernandez-Bautista has devoted her life to strengthen Indigenous immigrant communities, in particular women, to ensure they have a voice in shaping their future,” said Senator Caballero. “Her leadership, cultural advocacy and commitment to economic empowerment have left an indelible mark on the Central Valley and I am honored to recognize her incredible contributions.”

Through her work with the Pan Valley Institute, Ms. Hernandez-Bautista has brought indigenous migrant women together to learn leadership skills, has taught them civic engagement and has encouraged them to use their talents to develop economically. Her dedication to preserve Oaxacan tradition is evident through her leadership in organizing Madera’s first-ever Guelaguetza, an annual celebration of traditional dances, costumes, food and crafts by different indigenous groups and in her involvement with the See Savi dance group, which showcases and celebrates Indigenous heritage.

As a co-owner of Colectivo Sabor a Mi Tierra, she integrates cultural identity with economic opportunity, promotes Indigenous food knowledge and supports women entrepreneurs.

*You can use this link to view video of the ceremony in addition to photos attached.

For interviews or inquiries, please contact: Elisa Rivera at (559) 264-3070

Senator Anna M. Caballero represents the 14 th Senate District, composed of majority portions of Merced, Fresno and Madera Counties. She is the Chair of the Senate Appropriations Committee and a Member of the Middle Mile Advisory Committee among others.

###

Office Information

Capitol

Office

1021 O Street, Suite 7620

Sacramento, CA 95814

Phone: (916) 651-4014

Fresno

District Office

2550 Mariposa Mall, Suite 2016

Fresno, CA 93721

Phone: (559) 264-3070

Merced

510 West Main Street, Suite E

Merced, CA 95340

Phone: (209) 726-5495

California State Senate | Democratic Caucus © | Privacy Policy | Accessibility Statement