SACRAMENTO, CA – the California State Senate passed Senator Bob Archuleta’s (D-Pico Rivera) Joint Resolution No. 3, urging support for the Battleship USS Iowa Museum and National Museum of the Surface Navy Act of 2021. The joint resolution passed unanimously through both houses of the state legislature and urges the United States Congress to pass, and the President of the United States to sign, the Act, which calls for construction of the National Museum of the Surface Navy aboard the Battleship USS Iowa at the Port of Los Angeles.

I am grateful to Senator Diane Feinstein and Congresswoman Nanette Diaz Barragán for their continued commitment at the Federal level to this effort. Designating the Battleship USS Iowa in the Port of Los Angeles as a museum expresses our pride for the generations of individuals who guarded our Nation’s interests aboard this vessel, and signals our belief in preserving this legacy through a community-based institution in order to inspire future generations. I am grateful to the advocates in our community and generations of Veterans who served aboard this vessel for their continued support as we strive to see this museum come to fruition.”

The region was home to the US Navy’s Pacific Fleet before its relocation to Pearl Harbor. It is fitting given that history to see the region utilized to tell the stories of those who served aboard the Battleship USS Iowa to promote civic responsibility and an appreciation of public service, as well as educate the public about the role of the sea services to influence American culture into the future. You can learn more about the Battleship USS Iowa by visiting https://www.pacificbattleship.com/our-story/ .

Senator Bob Archuleta represents the 32nd Senate District, which includes portions of Los Angeles County and Orange County. He is Chair of the Senate Committee on Military and Veterans Affairs, Chair of the Select Committee on Hydrogen Energy, and member of the Senate Select Committee on California, Armenia and Artsakh Mutual Trade, Art and Cultural Exchange.

###

Office Information

Capitol Office

1021 O Street, Suite 6620

Sacramento, CA 95814

Phone: (916) 651-4030

District Office

12501 Imperial Hwy. Ste. 110

Norwalk, CA 90650

Phone: (562) 406-1001

California State Senate | Democratic Caucus © 2025 | Privacy Policy | Accessibility Statement