DIAMOND BAR, CA – Senator Bob Archuleta (D-Pico Rivera), in honor of Women’s History Month, recognized 21 women at his annual 2024 Women of Achievement in Senate District 30 program. They were selected from a list of candidates who either live or work in the district.

“This event is one of my favorites during the year because it’s an opportunity to honor the women our district for their outstanding hard work and dedication to their respective communities,” Senator Archuleta said. “Each one of the honorees, representing a broad spectrum of careers and volunteerism, has contributed to the prosperity and well-being of our respective communities.”

The reception for the recipients and their families and friends was held at the Diamond Bar Center on March 23, 2024.

The program included Diamond Bar Councilwoman Ruth M. Low as Mistress of Ceremonies; Girl Scout Troop 8011 reciting the Pledge of Allegiance; vocalist Xochitl Marquez singing the National Anthem; and Pastor Myrna Brito (Spirit Life Community Church, Norwalk) giving the invocation.

This year’s honorees are:

Martha Calderon (Industry), who supports students in the community through her work as the Director of the Office of Equity and Access within the Hacienda La Puente Unified School District. Her passion for equity and access for the most vulnerable students is evident in her daily work and actions, including the recent opening of a resource center for foster and unhoused students and families.

Angie Castaneda (La Puente), whose love of animals coupled with a strong work ethic serves her well as one of the top officers in the La Puente Animal Control Services. Her recent investigation into a recovered lost dog via microchip led to reuniting a stolen dog with its family after three years.

Dr. Paulina Cho (Hacienda Heights) is the principal of Wedgeworth Elementary School, where she and her staff are dedicated

to ensure their students will learn to develop and acquire the global competencies and 21st century skills to thrive and excel internationally. She exemplifies an outstanding transformational school leader, with a vision and collaborative leadership style that leaves an indelible mark on the staff and students.

Laura Diaz (Brea), who is known professionally as Chef LaLa, is a multi-faceted talent, boasting accomplishments as a chef, cookbook author, food stylist, food consultant, and certified nutritionist. She is an entrepreneur committed to health and nutrition, and founded Chef Nourish, a meal delivery company renowned for its chef-crafted meals.

Eden Escobedo (Bellflower) is the president of Miss Bellflower, a community-based non-profit committee, and is dedicated to making a positive impact in the lives of young women who are eager to represent their city in a positive manner. The Miss Bellflower Courts, under her guidance, have collectively contributed thousands of hours of community service.

Kathie Fink (Santa Fe Springs) is the Chief Executive Officer of the Santa Fe Springs Chamber of Commerce, and during the past 25 years, she has been the driving force behind numerous initiatives that have not only strengthened the chamber but also fostered enduring connections within the community. Her leadership is rooted in her genuine concern for the well-being and growth of those around her.

Sue Grant (Brea) founded The Literacy Project in 2009, helping 10,500 underserved students who are struggling readers.

Under her leadership, more than 5.1 million dollars were raised to provide a reading program, at “no cost,” to both students and schools in four states.

Cindy A. Jarvis (Santa Fe Springs) is the principal at Santa Fe Springs Christian School, where she and her staff, for the past 10

years, have inspire each child to discover their own worth and become their best selves. She is a friend to the community, volunteering at various events and programs, including the city’s Relay for Life, which she has chaired the past four years.

Celia Jimenez (Pico Rivera) is a longtime business owner, who cofounded Mario’s Tacos with her late husband, Mario Jimenez.

For 30 years, the popular eatery has served free turkey dinners on Thanksgiving Day to families and individuals. The family business also serves the community through sponsorships and fundraisers.

Sandy Martinez (Whittier) is the Clinical Director of the Emergency Department at PIH Health Whittier Hospital, which cares for about 80,000 patients annually. She has more than 18 years of experience as a registered nurse and nurse leader who has enhanced PIH Health’s relationship with law enforcement, behavioral health organizations, and public health agencies to improve the care to those in most need.

Shirrell McCarey (Whittier) served her country in the United States Navy for 35 years and retired as a Commander. She does outreach for the El Camino Real Whittier Chapter of the American G.I. Forum, and is the organization’s State Commander – the first African-American woman to hold the position in the organization’s 80-year history.

Patty Miller (La Mirada), while serving as president of the La Mirada Kiwanis in 2023, created “Buddy Benches” to help combat loneliness and bullying at school at the six elementary schools in the city. A student sitting on the bench is a signal to others that they are feeling lonely and isolated, and need a friend to talk to or to play.

Dr. Julie Mitchell (Rowland Heights), as the Rowland Heights Unified School District Superintendent, demonstrates a commitment to advancing equity, community involvement, and professionalism, as she leads approximately 13,000 students, 21 schools, and approximately 2,300 employees. Her belief in student voice inspired her to develop the student-led Students for Equitable Education Summit to provide students from across the nation a platform to speak about social justice issues.

Gayle Pacheco (Walnut) Gayle is a founding member of the Walnut Valley Educational Foundation where she currently serves as treasurer, and is president of the Walnut Valley Symphony Orchestra and Master Chorale. She also volunteers for a number of community organizations, such as the Walnut Lions Club and the Walnut Valley Women's Club, and has directed the Children's Choir at St. Lorenzo Catholic Church in Walnut for 35 years.

Shushma Patel (Montebello) has been an independent pharmacy owner since November 2012, and is passionate about community service and the opportunities that health care reform present for clinically- minded pharmacists in community settings. Aside from her work as a pharmacist, she is an active member of the Montebello Chamber of Commerce, on the board of the Montebello Rotary, and on the advisory board and chairwoman of the Indian Pharmacists Association of California.

Mercedez Quintanilla (Norwalk) is the executive director of The Door of Hope Youth and Family Resource Center, whose mission is to reclaim, rebuild, and restore hope to the youth and families in the community. Under her leadership, The Door of Hope empowers the youth, families, and individuals in the community by strengthening their ability to be self-sufficient and equipped to lead others.

Sonja Reed (Diamond Bar) is a member of the Diamond Bar Woman’s Club and co- founded its annual “Making Spirits Bright” Toy Drive, benefiting the military families of the 29 Palms Marine Corps Base in San Bernardino County. Last year more than 2,000 toys were donated to the families. She also created a “Making Spirits Bright” group at the E-Free Church in Diamond Bar and other area churches to help raise support for military families.

Lissette Rivera (Downey) is a local business owner and a founding member of the War on Lethal Fentanyl (WAR), a non-profit, that collaborates with the Downey Unified School District to raise awareness in the city and surrounding areas. She is also an active member in the Assistance League of Downey, the Downey Chamber of Commerce, the Downey Association of Realtors, and the Rotary Club of Downey.

Vanessa Romo (Norwalk) is a Los Angeles County Sheriff ’s deputy assigned to the Norwalk Station, where she has developed a reputation as someone who could be counted on by her partners and the community. She is the community relations deputy who coordinates with the Neighborhood Watch programs; works closely with local businesses to strategically combat the issues they face; attends school functions and outreach events; and works with city officials to best utilize the department’s resources.

Samantha Salmeron (Bellflower) is the executive director of Little House, Inc., a local nonprofit that provides transitional housing for women struggling with alcohol and substance abuse issues. She is a commitment and innovated leader who has significantly impacted the lives of women in need in the city and surrounding communities.

Senator Bob Archuleta currently represents the 30th Senate District, which includes portions of Los Angeles County and Orange County. He is the Chair of the Senate Committee on Military and Veterans Affairs, and a member of the Business, Professions and Economic Development Committee, Government Organization Committee, Transportation Committee, as well as the Joint Legislative Committee on Emergency Management. Website of Senator Bob Archuleta : https://sd30.senate.ca.gov/

###

Office Information

Capitol Office

1021 O Street, Suite 6620

Sacramento, CA 95814

Phone: (916) 651-4030

District Office

12501 Imperial Hwy. Ste. 110

Norwalk, CA 90650

Phone: (562) 406-1001

California State Senate | Democratic Caucus © 2025 | Privacy Policy | Accessibility Statement