After a soul-stirring procession and libation ceremony at Sunday’s 15 th Annual “Day of Ancestors: Festival of Masks” celebration in Leimert Park, Senator Lola Smallwood-Cuevas (D-Los Angeles) took the stage to announce, before a crowd of about 500 people, her efforts to state-designate Historic South Los Angeles as a Black Cultural District. The new cultural district will serve as a hub for South LA landmarks, businesses and institutions – while spotlighting legendary areas, such as the Crenshaw corridor, Historic West Adams and Central Avenue – to support the community’s preservation and economic revitalization.

“Black cultural spaces are under attack by the Trump administration, facing increased threats that undermine their critical role in preserving our history and communities,” said Senator Smallwood-Cuevas, whose 28 th District includes South Los Angeles. “Protecting these spaces by creating a Black Cultural District is needed now more than ever.”

On Friday, the State Legislature voted to approve $2.5 million in funding for the Historic South LA Black Cultural District as part of the Budget Act of 2025. The crowd cheered when Senator Smallwood-Cuevas delivered the news about the cultural district’s state funding approval that she fought for. “I am so proud to say that just last week, the State Senate and Assembly voted to provide seed money to recognize South LA as the first historic Black Cultural District designated by the State of California.”

Senator Smallwood-Cuevas began working on designating the Historic South LA Black Cultural District after learning that none of the 14 cultural districts currently established across the state represent historically Black communities. “South LA is home to California’s largest concentration of Black-owned businesses and cultural institutions. Yet, this community is not state-designated as a Black Cultural District. That needs to change, and I’ve been determined to win that designation for our community.”

In her effort to establish the Black Cultural District, Senator Smallwood-Cuevas secured $3 million in state funding in 2023 to initiate the process of designing and erecting markers and monuments throughout the district – gateways similar to those displayed in other well-known cultural districts. Her district team worked with LA Commons, a cultural engagement organization, along with a coalition of community groups, business owners, artists and residents, to offer input on how to best shape the cultural district in preparation for its state designation. This summer, the Senator’s office will submit an application to the California Arts Council to officially designate Historic South LA as a Black Cultural District.

Such a designation would not only put an international spotlight on this historic community, it would provide important funding opportunities that would preserve the community’s rich history and culture as well as stimulate the local economy. It would also make South LA a destination for tourists seeking an authentic Black cultural experience. A cultural district designation is crucial for South LA’s future economic growth, especially as Los Angeles prepares to host the 2026 FIFA World Cup and the 2028 Olympic and Paralympic Games, in addition to other major global events in the years ahead.

Senator Lola Smallwood Cuevas represents the 28 th Senate District, which includes the communities of South Los Angeles, Mid City, Culver City, West Los Angeles, Century City and Downtown Los Angeles. Senator Smallwood-Cuevas spent more than two decades serving as a worker rights and racial equity advocate before her election to the State Senate. She resides in the View Park community of South Los Angeles with her family.

#  #  #

Capitol Office

1021 O Street, Suite 6530

Sacramento, CA 95814

Phone: (916) 651-4028

Los Angeles

700 Exposition Park Drive

Los Angeles, CA 90037

Phone: (213) 745-6656

California State Senate | Democratic Caucus © 2025 | Privacy Policy | Accessibility Statement