SB 1254 (The FRESH Act) connects incarcerated individuals with vital services such as CalFresh and other resources prior to release in order to increase the success of re-entry

Sacramento, CA— Today, Senator Josh Becker (D-Menlo Park) announces The FRESH Act (SB 1254), which will reduce recidivism by allowing and assisting incarcerated individuals to pre-apply for CalFresh benefits 90 days prior to their release in order to better prepare them for a more successful re-entry. This bill taps into underutilized federal funding that supports CalFresh and expands access for individuals that would otherwise qualify for it. This bill also creates a workgroup within the California Department of Social Services (CDSS) to create a statewide, uniform process for re-entry for all incarcerated individuals.

“Expanding and streamlining access to benefits and programs for which incarcerated individuals already qualify increases the success of their re-entry,” said Becker . “We need to employ every option we have to ensure that the re-entry process is as seamless as possible, and The FRESH Act will connect people to vital services and fresh foods.”

“The majority of Californians who have been impacted by the legal system, including myself, have felt a lot of shame as we’ve returned to our communities without a clear plan. This stress combined with informational and financial barriers only continues the cycle of poverty and ultimately leads to recidivism. An essential element of reducing this destructive cycle is access to the food individuals need to thrive,” says Alissa Moore, Re-entry Coordinator with Legal Services for Prisoners with Children, All Of Us or None .

“We proudly endorse Senate Bill 1254, " said Kameron Mims-Jones, Senior Policy Advocate with Nourish California . “By incorporating CalFresh as a stabilizing factor, SB1254 aligns with our shared commitment to building an inclusive, supportive, and resilient California. This legislation goes beyond words. It's a tangible investment in the well-being of individuals and the strength of our communities. By supporting the integration of CalFresh into reentry programs, we are taking a proactive step towards positive change, recognizing the transformative power it brings to the lives of those seeking to rebuild.”

Food insecurity is one of the most challenging hurdles that previously-incarcerated individuals face upon re-entry. While there is already an existing re-entry enrollment process for Medi-Cal and other benefits, there are no equivalent enrollment processes for CalFresh and various other supportive services.

Removing these barriers to necessary services will increase the likelihood of a successful re-entry for a previously-incarcerated individual and maximize utilization of a federally-funded program that benefits California.

The FRESH Act creates this process for these programs and removes unnecessary barriers to re-entry. In doing so, it helps reduce food insecurity in California and builds upon existing work in connecting individuals with state services in an effective manner.

It further creates a workgroup within CDSS to create a report to the department and Legislature with recommendations for a statewide re-entry process incorporating all potential necessary resources for an individual's re-entry into the community.

The bill will also require CDSS and Department of Health Care Services to create and test a Medi-Cal and CalFresh combined application for incarcerated individuals soon leaving incarceration by or on January 1, 2026.

The FRESH Act is sponsored by Legal Services for Prisoners with Children-All of Us or None and Nourish California, and is supported by Justice in Aging.

Office Information

Capitol Office

1021 O Street, Suite 6520 Sacramento, CA 95814 Phone: (916) 651-4013 Fax: (916) 651-4913

District Office

3525 Alameda de las Pulgas Menlo Park, CA 94025 Phone: (650) 233-2724

Social Media

California State Senate | Democratic Caucus © 2023 | Privacy Policy | Accessibility Statement

September 8, 2025

August 28, 2025

August 19, 2025

July 28, 2025

Senator Becker announces The FRESH Act to FastTrack necessary benefits for incarcerated individuals and better prepare them for re-entry

Statement from Bay Area Caucus on Preserving the $750 Million Bay Area Transit Bridge Loan

Creating Change – August 2025

Is California on Track for 2030?

Creating Change – July 2025