For Immediate Release

Contact: Elisa Rivera

(559) 264-3070 Elisa.Rivera@sen.ca.gov

Senator Anna M. Caballero will Deliver Ceremonial Check for $1 Million to the City of Kerman to Complete the Hart Ranch Community Park Project

The project includes multi-use sports fields, splash pads, walking paths, interpretive panels, shaded picnic area and a community garden.

SACRAMENTO: Senator Anna M. Caballero (D-Merced) announced today that she successfully secured $1 Million to complete the Hart Ranch Community Park in the City of Kerman and will present a ceremonial check to the Mayor.

The $1 Million check, secured in this year’s budget, will ensure the completion of the project created to benefit children and families who live nearby. New parks, outdoor recreation and community gathering places are critical, quality of life projects that create a healthy community, reduce stress and bring friends and family together.

“Access to parks and community open space are an important priority for me. Safe, welcoming parks for the community to recreate and enjoy ensures families and children can form habits that contribute to a healthy lifestyle and builds healthy communities. It was important for me to work together with the Mayor and City Council to secure funds for the Hart Ranch Community Park in the beautiful City of Kerman.” Senator Anna Caballero, Senate District 14

“We are incredibly grateful for the unwavering support of Senator Caballero who has gifted Heart Ranch Park with 1 million reasons to believe in the power of community and the promise of a brighter tomorrow. Her generous contribution is a testament to her commitment to our shared vision of a thriving, heartwarming sanctuary for all. With her support, Hart Ranch Park will flourish as a place where love and nature intersect, leaving an indelible mark on the heart of our city .” –Mayor Maria Pacheco

Immediately following the check presentation, Senator Caballero has the distinct honor of presenting a resolution to the City of Kerman to celebrate National Native American Heritage Month in November.

The Senator’s itinerary is as follows:

When : November 8, 2023 at 4:30 PM

Who:

Senator Anna Caballero

Mayor, Maria Pacheco and Kerman City Councilmembers

City Manager, John Janson

Santa Rosa Rancheria Yokut Nation Elders

Location:

Kerman City Hall

850 S Madera Ave.

Kerman, CA 93630

What:

Ceremonial Check Presentation to the City of Kerman to complete the Hart Ranch Community Park project in Kerman, CA. This includes multi-use sports fields, splash pads, interpretive panels, shaded picnic area and a community garden.

Immediately following the check presentation, Senator Caballero has the distinct honor of presenting a resolution to the City of Kerman in celebration of National Native American Heritage Month celebrated in November.

For interviews or inquiries, please contact Elisa Rivera at (559) 264-3070

Senator Anna M. Caballero represents the 14 th Senate District, composed of majority portions of Merced, Fresno and Madera Counties.

* Senator Anna M. Caballero serves as the Interim Representative for the Salinas Valley and San Benito County until 2024 when a newly elected Senator will assume the district

Office Information

Capitol

Office

1021 O Street, Suite 7620

Sacramento, CA 95814

Phone: (916) 651-4014

Fresno

District Office

2550 Mariposa Mall, Suite 2016

Fresno, CA 93721

Phone: (559) 264-3070

Merced

510 West Main Street, Suite E

Merced, CA 95340

Phone: (209) 726-5495

California State Senate | Democratic Caucus © | Privacy Policy | Accessibility Statement