Senator Dave Cortese (D-San Jose) issued the following statement about School Reopening Legislation, SB/AB 86 as amended March 1 st , 2021 , that would provide funding to open California schools and aid in learning recovery efforts:

“Remote learning has taken a significant toll on our student’s mental health as well as their academic outcomes, with students, families, teachers and school faculty dealing with high levels of stress and anxiety amid the pandemic. While there is no easy solution to reopening California schools, it is clear that we need to get students back into their classrooms as quickly as possible without compromising their safety or the safety of our teachers and administrators. I am hopeful that this plan will address the learning loss that students have experienced without in-person instruction, while ensuring that our educators, students, and families are as protected as possible. Responding to learning loss impacts as well as considerations for physical and mental health must be factored into our State’s next steps moving forward to continue to support the overall health and well-being of all children.”

“Remote learning has taken a significant toll on our student’s mental health as well as their academic outcomes, with students, families, teachers and school faculty dealing with high levels of stress and anxiety amid the pandemic.

While there is no easy solution to reopening California schools, it is clear that we need to get students back into their classrooms as quickly as possible without compromising their safety or the safety of our teachers and administrators.

I am hopeful that this plan will address the learning loss that students have experienced without in-person instruction, while ensuring that our educators, students, and families are as protected as possible.

Responding to learning loss impacts as well as considerations for physical and mental health must be factored into our State’s next steps moving forward to continue to support the overall health and well-being of all children.”

For more information, contact Tara Sreekrishnan, Office of Senator Dave Cortese, at 408 480 7833 or tara.sreekrishnan@sen.ca.gov .

##

Senator Dave Cortese represents State Senate District 15 which encompasses most of Santa Clara County, including the cities of Campbell, Los Gatos, Cupertino, Saratoga, Monte Sereno, and much of San Jose, stretching from the Santa Cruz Mountains to the west and Mountain Hamilton Range to the east.

Office Information

Capitol Office

1021 O Street Suite 7520 Sacramento, CA 95814

Phone: (916) 651-4015 Fax: (916) 651-4915

San Jose Office

1155 Meridian Avenue Suite 100 San Jose, CA 95125

Phone: (408) 723-4154 Fax: (408) 723-4159

California State Senate | Democratic Caucus © 2025 | Privacy Policy | Accessibility Statement

Senator Dave Cortese Issues Statement on Plan to Reopen California Schools