Newsletter: Sign Up For The Latest Updates

SACRAMENTO – In the face of continued attacks on our immigrant communities, Majority Leader Gonzalez’s (D-Long Beach) Senate Bill (SB) 48 the Safe Access to Schools Act, which is a California Latino Legislative Caucus Priority bill, passed the Senate on a 28-7 vote.

Since the start of the Trump administration, a flurry of federal actions has targeted immigrant communities across our nation and state. From attempts to end birthright citizenship to a lack of due process rights in deportations, immigrant families are being singled out and stripped of their rights — going against our core values of justice and inclusion that have long guided and shaped California.

In April this year, immigration enforcement officials sought and were denied access to two elementary schools in Los Angeles County. Targeting minors on school campuses for immigration enforcement has a chilling effect on our communities — with devastating consequences. Families live in fear of being torn apart, students stay home out of anxiety and threat of deportation, and schools suffer as attendance drops and funding declines.

In response, Senator Lena Gonzalez, State Superintendent of Public Instruction Tony Thurmond and a robust coalition of parents, teachers, school staff, local educational agencies, and community leaders have been actively advocating for Senate Bill 48 to advance through the legislature and ensure greater protections for students and families.

“Today’s Senate vote in support of the Safe Access to Schools Act is a huge win for our students and all California families,” said Senator Lena Gonzalez. “Amid the chaos, uncertainty and cruel attacks on our immigrant communities, this bill moving forward—is a powerful signal of hope and reassurance. Every child deserves a safe place to learn, and every California family deserves to be treated with dignity and respect. I’m deeply grateful to the teachers, parents, and community members who have championed this bill, to State Superintendent Thurmond for his leadership, and to my Senate colleagues for helping to advance this critical legislation. Now I urge my colleagues in the Assembly to help carry this bill across the finish line and send it to the Governor’s desk.”

"I am pleased by the news that SB 48 is now on its way to the Assembly, affirming California’s unwavering commitment to protecting all students, regardless of immigration status,” said State Superintendent Tony Thurmond . “By trying to keep ICE off our campuses and shielding school data from misuse, we are sending a clear message: we want our schools to be safe havens for learning. Every child should have the freedom to attend school without the threat of separation or deportation.”

Community leaders emphasized the importance of this legislation and what it means for students, parents and families.

“CABE thanks Senator Gonzalez for her work to promote and protect California’s students, including our most vulnerable and precious young scholars,” said California Association for Bilingual Association (CABE) CEO, Dr. Edgar Lampkin . “CABE believes that California must lead the nation in its vigilant protection and support for the safety and well-being of California’s immigrant community who are already facing objectification and are beginning to face harassment and intimidation. Many fear separation from their families, despite their status as citizens or documented residents. CABE stands by our students and their families and will continue to work with Senator Gonzalez to support the passage of SB 48.”

“Every child deserves the right to learn free from fear, and no parent should have to worry about immigration enforcement disrupting their child's education,” said Dr. Alma Castro, President of the Los Angeles County School Trustees Association and Board Member of Lynwood Unified School District . “SB 48 affirms our collective responsibility to ensure schools remain safe, inclusive spaces where students are protected, their assets affirmed, and empowered to thrive—regardless of their immigration status. We must uphold the fundamental principle that education should never be weaponized against vulnerable communities. This legislation sends a clear and resolute message: Schools must be places of learning, not fear. I urge lawmakers to stand with students, families, and educators in support of SB48 as it moves forward in the legislative process.”

"As educators, we work hard to build a sense of safety in our schools because we know students can’t do their best learning when they fear for their own personal wellbeing,” said Jeffery Freitas, President of CFT—A Union of Educators and Classified Professionals, AFT, AFT-CIO . “SB 48 will ensure that students, regardless of their backgrounds, are safe at school and able to access the quality education they deserve. We are thankful to Senator Lena Gonzalez for authoring this critical legislation, and look forward to Assembly passage in the coming weeks."

###

Majority Leader Lena Gonzalez proudly represents one million residents in California’s 33rd Senate District, which encompasses Southeast Los Angeles, the City and Port of Long Beach, Lakewood, Signal Hill, and Catalina Island. As Senate Majority Leader and Chair of the California Latino Legislative Caucus, she is a dedicated advocate on key priorities that impact Californians from economic development and environmental justice to LGBTQ+ and women’s rights, digital equity and more. Majority Leader Lena Gonzalez has championed major policies, including broadband for all, expanding paid sick leave, advancing clean transportation incentives, and ending neighborhood oil drilling. She lives in Long Beach with her family. To learn more, visit www.sen.ca.gov/gonzalez .

Superintendent Thurmond is an educator, social worker, and public school parent who has served Californians for more than 15 years in elected office. Previously, he served on the Richmond City Council, the West Contra Costa Unified School Board, and in the California State Assembly representing District 15.

The California Association for Bilingual Education (CABE) is a non-profit organization incorporated in 1976 to promote bilingual education and quality educational experiences for all students in California. CABE has chapters, members and affiliates, along with partnerships with other state and national advocacy organizations working to promote equity and student achievement for students with diverse cultural, racial, and linguistic backgrounds. CABE recognizes and honors the fact that we live in a rich multicultural, global society and that respect for diversity makes us a stronger state and nation.

Dr. Alma Castro is the President of the Los Angeles County School Trustees Association, leading 75 School Districts, K12 and Community Colleges. She serves on the Lynwood Unified School District Board of Education, and serves as the Director-at-Large, Hispanic for the California School Boards Association (CSBA). Dr. Alma Castro works for the English Learner Success Forum, as the Director of California Initiatives. With over 20 years of experience in PK-12 public education as a Teacher and School Administrator, Dr. Castro is a committed advocate for educational equity for all students, multilingual learner success, and closing the achievement gap.

Jeffery M. Freitas was elected CFT President in March 2019 after serving as CFT Secretary Treasurer for eight years. A credentialed secondary math teacher, Freitas has advocated on behalf of members and the education community for more than two decades as president of the Carpinteria Association of United School Employees, AFT Local 2216, and as a field representative and lobbyist for the CFT. Freitas also serves as a Vice President of the AFT and as the Secretary-Treasurer of the Federation of California Labor Unions.

read more news from district 33

Go Back To Main Page

Office Information

Capitol

1021 O Street, Suite 8610

Sacramento, CA 95814

Phone: (916) 651-4033

Fax: (916) 651-4933

Long Beach

3939 Atlantic Ave., Suite 107

Long Beach, CA 90807

Phone: (562) 256-7921

Fax: (562) 256-9991

Huntington Park

3355 East Gage Avenue

Huntington Park, CA 90255

Phone : (323) 277-4560

Fax : (323) 277-4528

California State Senate | Democratic Caucus © | Privacy Policy | Accessibility Statement

Senator Lena Gonzalez’s SB 48 to Keep Schools Safe amid Federal Deportation Threats Passes Senate

SACRAMENTO – In the face of continued attacks on our immigrant communities, Majority Leader Gonzalez’s (D-Long Beach) Senate Bill (SB) 48 the Safe A

SACRAMENTO – Majority Leader Lena Gonzalez’s (D-Long Beach) Senate Bill (SB) 572, which would ensure that California maintains access to critical vehicle safety data, passed the Se