SACRAMENTO, CA – Yesterday, the California State Senate passed SB 1357, provides tax relief for disabled veterans throughout California. The measure, introduced by Senator Bob Archuleta (D-Pico Rivera), creates an alternative disabled veterans’ exemption, which confers a full exemption from property tax for the entire value of the disabled veteran’s principal place of residence if the disabled veteran taxpayer has lost one or more limbs, is totally blind, and has a 100% United States Department of Veterans Affairs (USDVA) disability rating.

“Veterans, like all Californians, are feeling the pressure of rising costs,” said Senator Archuleta. “SB 1357 seeks to make California more affordable and livable for the men and women who served our nation. This measure provides a much needed tax relief for disabled veterans throughout the state.”

The California Constitution allows the Legislature to partially or wholly exempt from property tax the value of a disabled veteran’s principal place of residence if the veteran has lost two or more limbs, is totally blind, or is totally disabled as a result of a service-connected injury. The taxpayer must have served in the United States Army, Navy, Air Force, Marine Corps and been discharged under conditions other than dishonorable.

Current law defines “totally disabled” to mean that the USDVA or the military service from which the veteran was discharged has rated the disability at 100 percent, or has rated the disability compensation at 100 percent by reason of being unable to secure or follow a substantially gainful occupation. State law also contains specific definitions for blindness and the loss of two or more limbs.

“SB 1357 expands the disabled veterans’ exemption to allow a full property tax exemption for 100 percent disabled veteran homeowners to help keep veterans in California and from falling into homelessness,” said Archuleta. “This disabled veterans’ exemption honors their bravery and commitment to our nation, while also assisting our disabled veterans who are struggling with the high cost of living in California.”

““Improving The Lives of Veterans, Through Legislation”, Senator Bob Archuleta has proven time and time again, his commitment to the California Veteran community. Our bills will help the Veteran entrepreneur through increased opportunities, offer property tax relief for our most vulnerable 100% disabled Veterans and also help the men and women actively serving in our great State of California, through Cal-Fresh. Thank you Senator Archuleta,” Veterans Strong USA, sponsors of the legislation.

SB 1357 passed 39-0 and now heads to the Assembly for consideration.

Senator Bob Archuleta represents the 32nd Senate District, which includes portions of Los Angeles County and Orange County. He is Chair of the Senate Committee on Military and Veterans Affairs, Chair of the Select Committee on Hydrogen Energy, and member of the Senate Select Committee on California, Armenia and Artsakh Mutual Trade, Art and Cultural Exchange. Website of Senator Bob Archuleta: https://sd32.senate.ca.gov/

###

Office Information

Capitol Office

1021 O Street, Suite 6620

Sacramento, CA 95814

Phone: (916) 651-4030

District Office

12501 Imperial Hwy. Ste. 110

Norwalk, CA 90650

Phone: (562) 406-1001

California State Senate | Democratic Caucus © 2025 | Privacy Policy | Accessibility Statement