For Immediate Release

Contact: Elisa.Rivera@sen.ca.gov (559) 264-3070

Senator Anna M. Caballero Announces Grant Award from California Distressed Hospital Loan Program to Madera Community Hospital and Hazel Hawkins Memorial

Sacramento- Earlier this year, Senator Anna M. Caballero (D-Merced), Speaker Robert Rivas (D-Salinas) and Assemblywoman Esmeralda Soria (D-Merced) announced the passage of The Distressed Hospital Loan Program (SB/AB 112). The loan program was authored in response to the imminent closure of dozens of hospitals across the state.

Read more: HERE

“In December 2022, a rural community hospital in Madera closed its doors, leaving hundreds of thousands of community members without emergency care and over 900 employees without jobs. Hazel Hawkins, another hospital in my district, also risked closure. Swift action was critical to ensure that both hospitals could access resources to remain open, as well as other at-risk hospitals across the state.

The closure of Madera Hospital alone resulted in countless stories of tragedy and loss. My number one priority this year has been to ensure health access for residents and all Californians who desperately need hospital services. I have worked diligently with my legislative colleagues, stakeholders, and the Governor to find sustainable solutions and the Distressed Hospital Loan Program became the centerpiece of a larger relief package.

“It brings me tremendous relief to know that Madera Community Hospital and Hazel Hawkins Memorial Hospital, in San Benito County, have received grant awards and will be able to ensure that community members can once again receive services in their own communities. When seconds mean the difference between life and death, we cannot afford to have hospital doors closed. Today is a great day for Senate District 14.” –Senator Anna Caballero, Senate District 14

“I commend Senator Anna Caballero, Assemblymember Esmeralda Soria, and Governor Newsom for their leadership, and I am grateful that Central Coast hospitals will see immediate financial assistance,” Speaker Rivas said . “I’m also proud that our state has been able to provide a lifeline to many small, rural hospitals, which are closing at record rates in other states. But California has shown a commitment to maintaining access to care for all. We have a lot of work to do to ensure that our communities continue to have the best health-care services. I am very pleased we were able to quickly deliver this financial help to our hospitals that need it most.”

“Reopening Madera Community Hospital has been my number one priority. The significant financial assistance is an important step in the right direction to help Madera Community Hospital reopen its doors to the community. We have more work to do, but I’m proud to have led this effort, and am grateful the Legislature and Governor moved quickly to ensure vulnerable communities across California have health-care access when they need it most. I remain hopeful and will continue to work hard to ensure Madera Community Hospital reopens.” –Assemblymember Esmeralda Soria, Assembly District 27

Read more about HCAI loan awards here.

For interviews or inquiries, please contact: Elisa Rivera at (209) 726-5495 (Senator Caballero)

Senator Anna M. Caballero represents the 14 th Senate District, composed of majority portions of Merced, Fresno and Madera Counties.

* Senator Anna M. Caballero serves as the Interim Representative for the Salinas Valley and San Benito County until 2024 when a newly elected Senator will assume the district

###

Office Information

Capitol

Office

1021 O Street, Suite 7620

Sacramento, CA 95814

Phone: (916) 651-4014

Fresno

District Office

2550 Mariposa Mall, Suite 2016

Fresno, CA 93721

Phone: (559) 264-3070

Merced

510 West Main Street, Suite E

Merced, CA 95340

Phone: (209) 726-5495

California State Senate | Democratic Caucus © | Privacy Policy | Accessibility Statement