Senator Dave Cortese (D-Silicon Valley) made the following statement on regional stay-at-home orders being lifted for all counties across California.

“Thanks to the collective effort and sacrifice made by community members across California, we have made progress in slowing the spread of this virus, ensuring our hospital system is not overwhelmed, and protecting the lives of each and every one of us. The California Department of Public Health, today, made the decision to return the state to its tier system that will allow for the expansion of our businesses and activities with safety precautions in place, including limited service of our personal care services, outdoor operations of gyms and fitness centers, and outdoor dining. With the Bay Area region under the strict stay-at-home order for more than six weeks, the decision to lift this order will provide huge relief to our workers, families, and businesses that have been severely impacted. This decision from our Public Health Department was not made lightly. The threshold for a region to exit the order - ICU capacity surpassing 15% - is projected to be made in all regions still under the order, including the Bay Area, in the next four weeks. While we have saved a countless number of lives, our work is not done yet, and we must remember to remain vigilant in our efforts to not lose the progress we have achieved. I am confident that our community will continue to practice measures that will keep us safe. Today’s move to a tier system is another indicator that our collective actions are working.”

“Thanks to the collective effort and sacrifice made by community members across California, we have made progress in slowing the spread of this virus, ensuring our hospital system is not overwhelmed, and protecting the lives of each and every one of us.

The California Department of Public Health, today, made the decision to return the state to its tier system that will allow for the expansion of our businesses and activities with safety precautions in place, including limited service of our personal care services, outdoor operations of gyms and fitness centers, and outdoor dining.

With the Bay Area region under the strict stay-at-home order for more than six weeks, the decision to lift this order will provide huge relief to our workers, families, and businesses that have been severely impacted.

This decision from our Public Health Department was not made lightly. The threshold for a region to exit the order - ICU capacity surpassing 15% - is projected to be made in all regions still under the order, including the Bay Area, in the next four weeks.

While we have saved a countless number of lives, our work is not done yet, and we must remember to remain vigilant in our efforts to not lose the progress we have achieved. I am confident that our community will continue to practice measures that will keep us safe. Today’s move to a tier system is another indicator that our collective actions are working.”

For more information, contact Tara Sreekrishnan, Office of Senator Dave Cortese at 408 480 7833 or tara.sreekrishnan@sen.ca.gov .

Office Information

Capitol Office

1021 O Street Suite 7520 Sacramento, CA 95814

Phone: (916) 651-4015 Fax: (916) 651-4915

San Jose Office

1155 Meridian Avenue Suite 100 San Jose, CA 95125

Phone: (408) 723-4154 Fax: (408) 723-4159

California State Senate | Democratic Caucus © 2025 | Privacy Policy | Accessibility Statement

Senator Cortese’s Statement on California’s Stay-at-Home Order Being Lifted