Sacramento, CA - In response to escalating tensions and the deployment of federal and local law enforcement in California cities, Senator Dave Cortese (D-Silicon Valley) is urgently calling for organized, nonviolent resistance and the immediate deployment of trained facilitators and resources to prevent further violence in urban communities.

California has witnessed an alarming increase in federal enforcement activity in recent days, including high-profile ICE raids and the deployment of DHS agents in riot gear. These raids have sparked fear and confusion among residents.

Senator Cortese said the following: “As a state, we must not accept these escalating levels of violence and force against marginalized communities. We need trained leaders on the ground right now. A violent reaction to federal escalation will only lead to further oppression and could give cover to even more extreme actions by our federal administration. I’m calling for a disciplined, peaceful response not just to protect those under immediate threat, but to prevent further unchecked violence and dehumanization.

The Senator believes these teams of nonviolent facilitators should be positioned to support areas experiencing heightened federal activity, offering on-the-ground assistance to defuse tensions and protect residents. As budget negotiations continue this week, Senator Cortese is urging legislative leaders to act swiftly.

Across the country, successful nonviolence training models already exist. The U.S. Department of Justice’s Community Relations Service, for instance, has facilitated similar efforts in cities like Newburgh, Geneva, and Philadelphia where nonviolent conflict resolution specialists were deployed to address rising tensions following police-involved incidents. These facilitators work directly with local governments, law enforcement, and community groups to assist in de-escalation.

Senator Cortese has long been a leader in the nonviolence and restorative justice movement. He has hosted Community Nonviolence Conferences , including gatherings inspired by the teachings of Gandhi, King, and Cesar Chavez, which have brought together hundreds. The conferences have featured keynote speakers like Dolores Huerta and Ela Gandhi and have equipped many with practical tools for peacebuilding.

Office Information

Capitol Office

1021 O Street Suite 7520 Sacramento, CA 95814

Phone: (916) 651-4015 Fax: (916) 651-4915

San Jose Office

1155 Meridian Avenue Suite 100 San Jose, CA 95125

Phone: (408) 723-4154 Fax: (408) 723-4159

California State Senate | Democratic Caucus © 2025 | Privacy Policy | Accessibility Statement

Senator Cortese Calls for Nonviolent Resistance & Emergency Facilitation Teams In California Cities