San Jose — Senator Cortese extended his warm gratitude today to the community of Santa Clara County and scores of volunteers who made the Picnic by the Lake Multicultural Festival and Resource Fair a great success! The vibrant celebration took place on Saturday from 10 a.m. to 3 p.m., at Hellyer County Park.

“For over two decades, I've had the privilege of organizing various multicultural festivals that have brought together a wide range of community members on beautiful autumn days,” said Senator Cortese (D-San Jose). “My intention behind hosting these gatherings is to celebrate the essence of our multicultural community, and the neighbors who support each other and make Santa Clara County a wonderful place to live.”

Prior to Picnic by the Lake, Senator Cortese hosted ‘Day at the Bay’ at Alviso Marina County Park, which included free barbeque, kayak rides, and informational public resource booths.

“We were delighted to co-host Picnic by the Lake alongside our cherished Rotary member, Senator Cortese. This event allowed us to highlight Rotary's role in enhancing our local community in areas like educational equity, as well as making a positive impact on the international community,” said Nick Leon, Chair of The Rotary Foundation through the Rotary Club of San Jose East/Evergreen . “This year, we used our resource booth to highlight our efforts to combat human trafficking here in our community as well as in Vietnam.”

“On behalf of the Oak Grove School District, I am grateful for the support of Senator Cortese and the invaluable resources this upcoming fair will provide to our families,” said José L. Manzo, Superintendent of the Oak Grove School District. “This event is a testament to the unwavering commitment of our government to the welfare and success of our students. Together, we are not only nurturing stronger communities but building stronger schools where every child has the opportunity to thrive and reach their full potential.”

Picnic by the Lake featured a fun array of activities and attractions, including a complimentary grill-out featuring beef and veggie burgers prepared by county firefighters Local 1165. The event also featured:

A kid’s zone with inflatables, face painting, and bubbles

A rock climbing wall

Raffle prizes

100+ resource booths

Flu shots

Multicultural performances from local community groups

A pumpkin patch with free pumpkins

A land acknowledgment delivered by Chair Charlene Eigen-Vasquez and Gregg Castro on behalf of the Confederation of Ohlone People.

The 178-acre Hellyer County Park has been a gathering place for different cultures for millennia, including the home of the Tamien and Matalan tribes of the Ohlone Indians. The area has long been an intersection point for different cultures, a tradition kept alive by the Picnic by the Lake Multicultural Festival and Resource Fair.

Senator Cortese extended a special thanks to all event sponsors and volunteers, including partners, Rotary Club of San Jose East/Evergreen and Santa Clara County Parks and Recreation.

T o learn more about Rotary Club of San Jose East/Evergreen, click here: https://www.rotarysjee.org/

Gold Sponsors:

San Jose Water

Google

California Nurses Association

AT&T

Applied Materials

Silicon Valley Community Foundation

Silver sponsors:

Valley Water

Silicon Valley Clean Energy

Santa Clara and San Benito Counties Building Trades Council

County Employee Management Association

SEIU-UHW

Kaiser Permanente

Excite Credit Union

eBay

Office of Santa Clara County Supervisor Cindy Chavez

Safeway

Republic Services

Sheet Metal Workers Local 104

Nor Cal Carpenters Union

ATU Local 265

Teamsters Local 350

Senator Dave Cortese represents Senate District 15, which encompasses San Jose and much of Santa Clara County in the heart of Silicon Valley. Visit Senator Cortese’s website: https://sd15.senate.ca.gov

###

Office Information

Capitol Office

1021 O Street Suite 7520 Sacramento, CA 95814

Phone: (916) 651-4015 Fax: (916) 651-4915

San Jose Office

1155 Meridian Avenue Suite 100 San Jose, CA 95125

Phone: (408) 723-4154 Fax: (408) 723-4159

California State Senate | Democratic Caucus © 2025 | Privacy Policy | Accessibility Statement

Senator Cortese: First-ever Picnic by the Lake a Memorable Success