Senator Anna M. Caballero Introduces Legislation to Expand Parental Rights in Police Investigations Proposed Curtis’ Law would ensure families receive personal effects and all relevant information

SACRAMENTO: Senator Anna M. Caballero (D-Merced) introduced SB 1268, in the memory of Curtis Williamson, which would ensure the immediate family or guardian of a minor whose death is being investigated by law enforcement will be provided information relating to the investigation, including the contact information of the investigative officers, and access to personal effects.

In 1977, Patricia Ward was informed that her 16 year old son, Curtis Williamson, had gone missing after being chased into the water by a group of people at San Diego’s Crown Point. Ms. Ward was later informed that her son’s death was caused by accidental drowning, but she had little access to additional information. After a two yearlong battle, Ms. Ward finally obtained the information she was seeking on Curtis’ death. “Families suffering the loss of a child should not face hurdles to obtain relevant case information. SB 1268 would facilitate communication between families who have lost a child and agencies involved in the police investigation to ensure that grieving families receive adequate case information” –Senator Anna M Caballero (D-Merced)

“It is critical we remove any and all barriers that prevent survivors of crime from accessing the support and healing they need and deserve,” said Tinisch Hollins, executive director of Californians for Safety and Justice. “Crime victims and survivors across California need expanded rights, an end to discrimination, and real help from the state’s public safety systems that have failed to meet the needs of a vast majority of survivors of crime. Failing to communicate openly and transparently with victims in the aftermath of harm, especially parents who have lost a child, only serves to exacerbate cycles of trauma and undermines the health and well-being of our communities. We must do better by prioritizing healing and meeting the needs of all victims of crime.” –Californians for Safety and Justice

SB 1268 would require the primary law enforcement agency handling the investigation to provide the immediate family with the following information: (1) Contact information for each law enforcement agency involved in the investigation and the primary contact within each involved agency. (2) The case number referencing the investigation, if applicable. (3) A list of personal effects found with the minor and contact information needed to allow immediate family to collect the personal effects, so long as this does not interfere with the ongoing investigation by law enforcement. (4) Information regarding the status of the investigation, at the discretion of the law enforcement agency.

For interviews or inquiries, please contact Elisa Rivera at (209) 726-5495. Senator Anna M. Caballero represents the 12th Senate District, composed of Merced and San Benito Counties, Salinas Valley, and portions of Fresno, Madera and Stanislaus Counties. ###

Office Information

Capitol

Office

1021 O Street, Suite 7620

Sacramento, CA 95814

Phone: (916) 651-4014

Fresno

District Office

2550 Mariposa Mall, Suite 2016

Fresno, CA 93721

Phone: (559) 264-3070

Merced

510 West Main Street, Suite E

Merced, CA 95340

Phone: (209) 726-5495

California State Senate | Democratic Caucus © | Privacy Policy | Accessibility Statement

Senator Anna M. Caballero Introduces Legislation to Expand Parental Rights in Police Investigations