Senator Anna M. Caballero Honors Senate District 14 Women of the Year for the Salinas Valley and San Benito County and Recognizes Women of Distinction

Salinas : Senator Anna M. Caballero (D-Merced) is pleased to name Monica Andrade of the Salinas Valley and Elaine Klauer of San Benito County, Women of the Year for the 14 th Senate District in their respective counties. Both women truly inspire our community with their extraordinary achievements, service and contributions.

“This year, it is my honor to recognize women in the Salinas Valley and San Benito County for their contributions to the health and well-being of our communities. Through their leadership, public service, dedication and collaborative spirit, we have seen neighborhoods transformed and strengthened. Senate District 14 thrives and is a better place to work and live because of their advocacy.” –Senator Anna Caballero (D-Merced)

San Benito County Woman of the Year Honoree, Elaine Klauer:

Elaine Klauer has been in education for over 20 years serving as an elementary classroom teacher, a middle school principal and currently as Assistant Superintendent for the San Benito High School District. She has transformed the district by building a framework to implement fair and equitable grading practices across the curriculum and instituted policies that encourage inclusion and access for all students. She has advocated for special needs, migrant students, and English learners. Ms. Klauer is a natural leader who works tirelessly to build relationships and coalitions in order to formulate policies that have “buy-in” from all parties. She places the community’s needs first and makes decisions with the people of San Benito County in mind. She truly is a woman who inspires in education, in leadership and in service to the community.

“Balancing life as a mom of three and working in the busy world of education for 27 years has been rewarding! I have grown from being an elementary school teacher to an Assistant Principal to Assistant Superintendent of Academic and Instructional Programs, all in San Benito County. Along the way, I have had the incredible opportunity to work alongside some amazing women - true innovators and leaders who know how to get things done and make learning and working together fun. I am deeply committed to my position as a female leader in the field of education and continue to support future young women to aspire to leadership roles.” – Elaine Klauer

Salinas Valley Woman of the Year Honoree, Monica Andrade:

Monica Andrade was born and raised in Salinas. She is the eldest of five children and first generation of immigrant parents originally from Guanajuato, Mexico. Ms. Andrade proudly served in the US Army and completed one tour in Iraq. It was through her military service that she understood the impact and importance of being involved in current political affairs and social justice issues. As a wife and mother of three who works full-time, she has experienced many challenges, yet Monica has found purpose in creating safe environments for her children and the families she represents. Education, understanding social issues, advocacy for equality and family are at the forefront of her daily work. Ms. Andrade is Parent Educator for Door to Hope, a non-profit organization that provides direct services to underserved communities.

“This work is meaningful because this is my community and because I have children paying attention to what I am willing to accept and what is worth fighting for. It is meaningful because I have two daughters whose rights are under threat. I do this work because ultimately, it is the right thing to do.” –Monica Andrade

Women of Distinction:

Jackie Cruz, Woman of Distinction in Education—Salinas, CA

Claudia Reyes, Woman of Distinction in Community Service and Volunteerism, Salinas CA

Krystal Lomanto, Woman of Distinction in Education, Hollister, CA

Nicole Ann Shelton, Woman of Distinction in Community Service and Volunteerism, Tres Pinos, CA

Details are as follows:

When:

Friday, April 5, 2024

3:00-4:30 PM

Location:

Digital Nest, Salinas

210 Salinas Street

Salinas, CA 93901

For more information:

SALINAS DISTRICT OFFICE

(831) 769-8040

132 W. Gabilan Street, Suite 101

*A similar event to recognize honorees in Merced, Madera and Fresno Counties is scheduled for May 2024, details to follow

*Scan the QR for more information on our Women of the Year

For interviews or inquiries, please contact Elisa Rivera at (559) 264-3070

Senator Anna M. Caballero represents the 14 th Senate District, composed of majority portions of Merced, Fresno and Madera Counties.

* Senator Anna M. Caballero serves as the Interim Representative for the Salinas Valley and San Benito County until 2024 when a newly elected Senator will assume the district

###

Office Information

Capitol

Office

1021 O Street, Suite 7620

Sacramento, CA 95814

Phone: (916) 651-4014

Fresno

District Office

2550 Mariposa Mall, Suite 2016

Fresno, CA 93721

Phone: (559) 264-3070

Merced

510 West Main Street, Suite E

Merced, CA 95340

Phone: (209) 726-5495

California State Senate | Democratic Caucus © | Privacy Policy | Accessibility Statement