SACRAMENTO – Senator Bob Archuleta (D-Pico Rivera) has announced the creation of a Senate Select Committee on Hydrogen Energy to provide an overview of the State and the progress of the hydrogen industry as California continues making use of emerging energy technology to help the State meet its clean energy goals. "Hydrogen energy will be an important part of our clean energy future, and exciting new technologies in that sector will pave the way for zero emissions vehicles and transportation in California," stated Archuleta.

"I am fighting for investments in both hydrogen infrastructure and clean transportation programs in the state Legislature and will continue to do so. I am excited about the continued testing of cutting-edge and innovative technologies taking place throughout California, and look forward to continuing to work with the legislature and energy sector leaders as we pursue our shared clean energy goals."

Senator Archuleta will Chair the Select Committee when it meets on Tuesday, July 27, 2021, which will include the following Select Committee Members:

Senator Bob Archuleta (Chair)

Senator Ben Allen

Senator Anna M. Caballero

Senator Bob Hueso

Senator Brian W. Jones

Senator Josh Newman

Senator Nancy Skinner

“As Chair of the Senate Select Committee on Hydrogen Energy, I look forward to providing an overview of the State and the progress of the hydrogen industry in moving us closer to our clean energy goals. We will bring together experts and stakeholders to deliver on our State’s ambitious goal of 100 percent of in-state sales of passenger cars and trucks being zero emissions vehicles by 2035. Meeting this goal will effect real changes on the ground for our environment and our economy in ways that will benefit future generations for many years to come through the continued rollout of zero emissions vehicles and supportive infrastructure.”

You can find participant access information and learn more about the Select Committee through the California State Senate’s website at https://www.senate.ca.gov/hydrogen-energy.&nbsp ;

Senator Bob Archuleta represents the 32nd Senate District, which includes portions of Los Angeles County and Orange County. He is Chair of the Senate Committee on Military and Veterans Affairs, Chair of the Select Committee on Hydrogen Energy, and member of the Senate Select Committee on California, Armenia and Artsakh Mutual Trade, Art and Cultural Exchange.

###

Office Information

Capitol Office

1021 O Street, Suite 6620

Sacramento, CA 95814

Phone: (916) 651-4030

District Office

12501 Imperial Hwy. Ste. 110

Norwalk, CA 90650

Phone: (562) 406-1001

California State Senate | Democratic Caucus © 2025 | Privacy Policy | Accessibility Statement