Downy and Whittier, CA – This week a new veteran support center opened at the Downey City Library to provide a range of support services to veterans living in Los Angeles County, while the Whittier Post Office hosted a ceremony to rename the Michigan Avenue branch after the late Jose Ramos, who helped establish the Vietnam Veterans Day organization.

The community-led center will provide veterans services in education, employment, entrepreneurship, wellness, and family support. The Post Office’s renaming after the late Jose Ramos was made possible by Congresswoman Linda Sanchez, who carried a bill through Congress to honor Jose Ramos who worked tirelessly to see a day honoring veterans of the Vietnam War.

“As Chair of the CA State Senate Committee on Veterans Affairs, I am proud of the City of Downey, for making a space available for bringing resources to those who have served in our Nation’s military. By opening up a site at the Downey Library, our community and network of veterans’ supporters can provide resources to veterans who reside in Downey and the surrounding region.”

“Our community thanks Congresswoman Sanchez for working to preserve Jose Ramos’ legacy. Congresswoman Sanchez and Jose Ramos worked together over many years to recognize the last Saturday of March annually as “Welcome Home Vietnam Veterans Day” on a national level. To say welcome home to a veteran is to welcome them back warmly into the folds of our community, and I am proud to see that sentiment alive and well today in this region through the legacy of Ramos’ work.”

Senator Bob Archuleta represents the 32nd Senate District, which includes portions of Los Angeles County and Orange County. He is Chair of the Senate Committee on Military and Veterans Affairs, Chair of the Select Committee on Hydrogen Energy, and member of the Senate Select Committee on California, Armenia and Artsakh Mutual Trade, Art and Cultural Exchange.

###

Office Information

Capitol Office

1021 O Street, Suite 6620

Sacramento, CA 95814

Phone: (916) 651-4030

District Office

12501 Imperial Hwy. Ste. 110

Norwalk, CA 90650

Phone: (562) 406-1001

California State Senate | Democratic Caucus © 2025 | Privacy Policy | Accessibility Statement