Senator Anna M. Caballero (D-12) Working to Ensure that All Essential Workers Have Personal Protection Equipment

Trish Roath is the Executive Director of the Resource Recovery Coalition of California, an organization of solid waste companies, which are providing essential services throughout Northern California. Earlier this month, Ms. Roath learned about the effort from State Senator Anna M. Caballero to collect personal protection equipment so that farm workers that put their health at risk in order to continue to feed the nation have protection from the corona virus, like other essential workers.

"On behalf of the member companies of the Resource Recovery Coalition of California, which provides essential solid waste services for about 25% of Northern California residents, we are privileged to share personal protective equipment resources with our fellow essential workers in the agricultural industry," said Roath. "We heard Sen. Caballero's call to action and are proud to serve her district and our state during this crisis."

Senator Caballero has been leading the effort to collect masks, hand sanitizer, and other PPE in the Salinas Valley to deliver to essential workers, who bravely work each day at health care facilities, water and energy districts, public safety, and agriculture and food services. These are the Americans keeping the country intact during the COVID 19 pandemic. In the Central Valley, a coalition of elected officials, are working on a similar effort.

“Farmers and farm workers are patriots, let’s be clear about that. In our nation’s moment of crisis, anyone who risks their lives, and the health of their families, deserves to have their government working for them, not against them. This could not be more true than for the American farm worker. I’m thrilled that the Resource Recovery Coalition heard my call to action, and stepped up. We need more interindustry co-operation like this, it’s really a great effort.”

If you are interested in donating personal protection equipment, you can contact Senator Caballero’s Salinas office at (831) 769-8040.

Senator Anna M. Caballero represents the 12th Senate District, composed of Merced, Madera and San Benito Counties, and portions of Fresno, Monterey, and Stanislaus Counties.

###

Office Information

Capitol

Office

1021 O Street, Suite 7620

Sacramento, CA 95814

Phone: (916) 651-4014

Fresno

District Office

2550 Mariposa Mall, Suite 2016

Fresno, CA 93721

Phone: (559) 264-3070

Merced

510 West Main Street, Suite E

Merced, CA 95340

Phone: (209) 726-5495

California State Senate | Democratic Caucus © | Privacy Policy | Accessibility Statement

Senator Caballero and the Resource Recovery Coalition Deliver Farm Worker PPE