SJR 9 strongly condemns militarized raids that have terrorized California families and workers since early June

SACRAMENTO – Senator María Elena Durazo (D-Los Angeles) presented Senate Joint Resolution 9 (SJR 9) before the Senate Public Safety Committee today, delivering powerful remarks that condemned the federal government's military-style immigration raids that have swept across California since June 6, 2025. The resolution, co-authored by Senators Jesse Arreguín, Anna Caballero, and Melissa Hurtado, strongly denounces the mass deportation raids targeting workers and families throughout the state.

"California is home to over 10 ½ million immigrants, 2.3 million of whom are undocumented," Senator Durazo stated. "They are the heart of our diverse communities whose invaluable contributions make us the 4th largest economy in the world."

Since June 6, federal immigration authorities have conducted military-style raids using unmarked vehicles, sealing off entire streets, and conducting warrantless arrests that have left communities terrorized. The raids have targeted schools, hospitals, workplaces, churches, and other traditionally safe spaces, with agents attempting to enter two L.A. Unified elementary schools seeking children as young as first grade.

"The Trump administration has made clear: no place is safe from his cruel mass deportations," Senator Durazo said. "These places are meant to be places of inspiration, protection, empathy and education. No one should have access to enforce immigration policy in these areas."

The economic impact of these raids threatens California's prosperity. According to a Bay Area Council - UC Merced report cited by Senator Durazo, California stands to lose a staggering $275 billion in GDP if deportations continue. Undocumented Californians contribute over $23 billion annually in local, state and federal taxes.

The resolution addresses the discriminatory nature of the enforcement actions, which have disproportionately targeted Latino and AAPI communities. "This is clear cut racial profiling," Senator Durazo stated. "We are witnessing lifelong residents being torn from their communities, parents being taken away from their children, students afraid to go to school."

The federal government’s actions have led to the detention and physical assault of peaceful protesters and elected leaders—including SEIU California president David Huerta and U.S. Senator Alex Padilla—raising grave constitutional concerns around free speech, the right to assemble, and the erosion of checks and balances.

SJR 9 specifically resolves that California:

·       Stands with immigrant families, workers, and community leaders against the terrorizing of neighborhoods under the guise of "enforcement"

·       Rejects the criminalization of peaceful protest and reaffirms constitutional rights

·       Affirms its commitment to safeguarding the rights and safety of all Californians regardless of immigration status

·       Supports the expansion of legal services and emergency response resources for affected families

The resolution is co-sponsored by the Coalition for Humane Immigrant Rights (CHIRLA), California Immigrant Policy Center, and CARECEN-LA.

"Let the Nation see a state that proudly defends immigrants, defends all of its residents, and defends the Constitution," Senator Durazo concluded. "Because everyone – regardless of immigration status – deserves the right to live their life with liberty and the pursuit of happiness."

The resolution now advances to the Senate Floor, where it is scheduled for a vote on June 30.

###

Senator María Elena Durazo represents the 26th Senate District, which includes a diverse array of Los Angeles neighborhoods, including Boyle Heights, El Sereno, Highland Park, Eagle Rock, Glassell Park, Mt. Washington, Cypress Park, Lincoln Heights, Atwater Village, Elysian Valley, Arlington Heights, Echo Park, Silver Lake, Los Feliz, East Hollywood, Little Armenia, Thai Town, Larchmont, Koreatown, Pico-Union, Westlake-MacArthur Park, Historic Filipinotown, Chinatown, Little Tokyo, the Arts District, Civic Center, City Terrace, East Los Angeles, and the City of Vernon.

Office Information

Capitol Office

1021 O Street, Suite 7530

Sacramento, CA 95814

Phone: (916) 651-4026

Los Angeles

1808 W. Sunset Blvd.

Los Angeles, CA 90026

Phone: (213) 483-9300

California State Senate | Democratic Caucus © | Privacy Policy | Accessibility Statement