Newsletter: Sign Up For The Latest Updates

SACRAMENTO, CA — Today, the California State Senate passed two bills and one resolution authored by Senator Henry Stern (D–Los Angeles) that directly address some of California’s most urgent challenges: climate-driven disasters, wildfire resilience, and the mental health crisis within the justice system. All three measures now move to the State Assembly, where they will undergo policy committee review in the coming weeks.

“These three bills take a thoughtful approach to protect people, use public resources wisely, and treat vulnerable individuals with care and dignity.”

SCR 50 – Protecting public dollars from harmful climate “maladaptation”:

SCR 50 urges the Governor’s Office of Land Use and Climate Innovation to formally define and address maladaptation, investments, or programs intended to respond to climate change that ultimately do more harm than good. The resolution seeks to establish clear criteria to ensure taxpayer dollars are directed toward future-safe resilience projects, especially as extreme weather events become more frequent and destructive.

“SCR 50 emphasizes the urgent need to prevent maladaptation: misguided climate responses that can worsen risk and waste taxpayer dollars,” said Senator Stern. “With climate impacts already costing lives and livelihoods, every dollar we invest must move us forward, not backward. Proactive, smart adaptation can save California up to $13 for every $1 spent.”

"When you find yourself in a hole, the first thing to do is to stop digging. And that's what the California Senate said by supporting SCR 50: let's not make climate change worse. SCR 50 tasks the Governor's Office of Land Use and Climate Innovation to define maladaptation, and to further advise state agencies on how to best avoid maladaptive policies and investment,” Jonathan Parfrey, Executive Director, Climate Resolve.

SB 499– Clarifying the emergency role of parks and rec facilities:

This bill ensures that parks and rec facilities, when identified in a local government’s safety element or hazard mitigation plan, qualify for fee deferral exemptions. These spaces are increasingly recognized as essential infrastructure, acting as fire buffers, evacuation hubs, staging areas, and cooling centers during emergencies. By clarifying their eligibility under existing law, this measure supports smarter local planning and acknowledges the evolving role of parks in community safety and wildfire mitigation.

“Parks are more than green space; they are life-saving infrastructure in a climate emergency, so we must be financially creative to keep these spaces prepped and ready to go,” said Senator Stern.

SB 820 – Ensuring Mental Health Treatment for Misdemeanor IST Defendants

SB 820 addresses a critical gap in care for individuals found incompetent to stand trial (IST) for misdemeanor offenses. While current law offers alternatives like diversion and assisted outpatient treatment (AOT), access is limited, especially for those whose mental health deteriorates in custody. This bill reinstates the ability to provide involuntary medication under strict medical supervision during the period between an IST determination and the offer of services. The goal is to improve stabilization, reduce recidivism, and increase the chances of meaningful recovery and reintegration.

“We’re identifying people who are too ill to face trial, then leaving them to deteriorate on the street after they are recycled through the system with no care plan. That’s not justice,  that is abandonment. Whether they commit a misdemeanor or a felony, we need the same standard across the board for all those who are incompetent to stand trial, SB 820 is the humane fix ” s aid Senator Stern.

Floor speeches: SCR 50 , SB 499 , SB 820

###

Office Information

Capitol Office

1021 O Street, Suite 7710 Sacramento, CA 95814 Phone: (916) 651-4027 Fax: (916) 651-4927

District Office

14724 Ventura Blvd., Suite 1115 Sherman Oaks, CA  91403 Phone: (818) 876-3352 Fax: (818) 876-0802