SACRAMENTO : Senator Anna M. Caballero (D-Merced) announced her appointment as Chair of the Senate Governance and Finance Committee. The Committee exercises oversight on bills relating to the Board of Equalization, enterprise zones, vehicle license fees and taxes (estate, income, sales, property, and insurance).

The Committee also considers legislation on zoning law (except housing) and on California communities—cities, counties, special districts, redevelopment agencies. Additionally, the Governance and Finance Committee will hear proposals on budget reform, state and local bond indebtedness, and legislative reform.

“I appreciate the trust and confidence that the Pro Tem has placed in me and thank her for the opportunity to chair the Senate Committee on Governance and Finance. As steward over proposals that will provide relief and support for working families and small businesses, I look forward to continued service to my district and the state of California through this position. In our current time of great economic uncertainty, it is important that the Legislature provide long-term investments and support for working families in order to sustain the 5 th largest economy in the world and to ensure that prosperity is shared by all.” –Senator Anna M Caballero (D-Merced) “Throughout her career as a local and statewide public servant, Senator Caballero has ensured working families—particularly those from rural areas—are always at the forefront of policy conversations,” said Senate President pro Tempore Toni G. Atkins (D-San Diego). “I have no doubt she will continue to make the needs of workers, farmers, and middle and lower income families central to decisions being made by the Senate Governance and Finance Committee. The fact that she is an alumnus of UC San Diego is just icing on the cake.”

“I appreciate the trust and confidence that the Pro Tem has placed in me and thank her for the opportunity to chair the Senate Committee on Governance and Finance. As steward over proposals that will provide relief and support for working families and small businesses, I look forward to continued service to my district and the state of California through this position. In our current time of great economic uncertainty, it is important that the Legislature provide long-term investments and support for working families in order to sustain the 5 th largest economy in the world and to ensure that prosperity is shared by all.” –Senator Anna M Caballero (D-Merced)

“Throughout her career as a local and statewide public servant, Senator Caballero has ensured working families—particularly those from rural areas—are always at the forefront of policy conversations,” said Senate President pro Tempore Toni G. Atkins (D-San Diego). “I have no doubt she will continue to make the needs of workers, farmers, and middle and lower income families central to decisions being made by the Senate Governance and Finance Committee. The fact that she is an alumnus of UC San Diego is just icing on the cake.”

For interviews or inquiries, please contact Elisa Rivera at (209) 726-5495

Senator Anna M. Caballero represents the 12 th Senate District, composed of the Salinas Valley, Merced and San Benito Counties, and portions of Fresno, Madera and Stanislaus Counties.

###

Office Information

Capitol

Office

1021 O Street, Suite 7620

Sacramento, CA 95814

Phone: (916) 651-4014

Fresno

District Office

2550 Mariposa Mall, Suite 2016

Fresno, CA 93721

Phone: (559) 264-3070

Merced

510 West Main Street, Suite E

Merced, CA 95340

Phone: (209) 726-5495

California State Senate | Democratic Caucus © | Privacy Policy | Accessibility Statement

Senator Anna M. Caballero Announces Appointment as Chair of the Senate Committee on Governance and Finance