State Senator Dave Cortese joined parents, Santa Clara County Supervisor Cindy Chavez, Santa Clara County Superintendent of Schools Dr. Mary Ann Dewan, and District Attorney Jeff Rosen to celebrate the legislative passage of the bipartisan bill known as “Melanie’s Law.” SB 10, which is awaiting approval by the Governor, focuses on preventing youth fentanyl overdoses through prevention, response, training, education, and awareness.

Fentanyl is responsible for one in five youth deaths in California. In Santa Clara County, fentanyl deaths have spiked by a shocking 863% increase in recent years. SB 10 mandates that every public school in California provide training to school employees on opioid prevention and life-saving response under a formal plan known as a Comprehensive School Safety Plan, or CSSP. Additionally, the bill establishes a state framework to ensure that all students and adults understand the growing risk of youth fentanyl exposure, and have access to the resources needed to prevent and respond to fentanyl poisoning and overdoses.

“Fentanyl has devastated families across California, but today we say, ‘not one more.’ SB 10 mandates that schools train all employees on how to prevent — and respond — to fentanyl overdoses,” said Senator Cortese (D-San Jose). “This law will protect millions of youth across California. If we prevent just one overdose death, all our efforts will be worth it.”

SB 10 is named in honor of Melanie Ramos, a 15-year-old who overdosed on fentanyl and died in the bathroom of her high school in Hollywood. Melanie and her friend had no idea they were taking fentanyl.

“No mother should have to experience the heartbreak that I’ve suffered. Melanie’s death was preventable. My daughter’s legacy will be to save lives across California. I ask the Governor to sign SB 10,” said Elena Perez, mother of Melanie Ramos .

SB 10 would also give school staff, students, and families information about the growing risk of opioids, informational material, and safety advice in partnership with the California Department of Education.

“Over 1,500 boxes of Narcan, the life-saving opioid reverser, have been distributed to schools across Santa Clara County. With the help of SB 10, we will ensure that every secondary school is equipped with the knowledge and tools to educate our students about the prevalence of fentanyl, and if necessary, save a student who is overdosing,” said Santa Clara County Superintendent of Schools Dr. Mary Ann Dewan . SB 10 is co-sponsored by the Santa Clara County Office of Education.

SB 10 was inspired by the Santa Clara County Fentanyl Working Group, a collaborative effort involving the Santa Clara County Office of Education, the Santa Clara County Office of the District Attorney, the County of Santa Clara, Santa Clara County Behavioral Health Services, and the Santa Clara County Opioid Overdose Prevention Project. This initiative aims to combat fentanyl's impact through a multifaceted strategy, including raising awareness of its dangers in schools and providing life-saving opioid reversal medication, which has already saved several students' lives since its launch in 2022.

“Counties throughout the state must continue to scale up services and resources to combat the fentanyl crisis on every front. That includes a wider distribution of Narcan in concert venues, bars, restaurants and by mail order; expanded prevention and public awareness campaigns tailored for youth and young adults, and training more physicians in drug prevention and addiction,” said Santa Clara County Supervisor Cindy Chavez, co-chair of the Fentanyl Working Group .

“We are no different than other communities touched by fentanyl. We have seen a drastic rise in overdose and deaths, especially in our children,” said Santa Clara County District Attorney Jeff Rosen. “The District Attorney’s Office has, and will always, vigorously prosecute peddlers of this deadly drug, charging murder whenever appropriate, in the hopes we will be different than other communities decimated by this poison. We owe the victims and their families that.”

SB 10 bill is co-sponsored by the Santa Clara County Office of Education, the County of Santa Clara, the California Association of Student Councils, and the California Consortium of Addiction Programs & Professionals (CCAPP).

“With the right tools and resources, we will end the fentanyl crisis in California. SB 10 will prevent overdose deaths by empowering schools with strategies, resources, and awareness,” said Sherry Daley , CCAPP’s Vice President of Governmental Affairs and Corporate Communications.

Support for SB 10 also includes Superintendent of Public Instruction Tony Thurmond, the California Teachers Association, the California Federation of Teachers, the Santa Clara County School Boards Association, the Los Angeles County Office of Education, ACLU California, and the California School Nurses Organization.

Senator Dave Cortese represents Senate District 15, which encompasses San Jose and much of Santa Clara County in the heart of Silicon Valley. Visit Senator Cortese’s website: https://sd15.senate.ca.gov

###

Office Information

Capitol Office

1021 O Street Suite 7520 Sacramento, CA 95814

Phone: (916) 651-4015 Fax: (916) 651-4915

San Jose Office

1155 Meridian Avenue Suite 100 San Jose, CA 95125

Phone: (408) 723-4154 Fax: (408) 723-4159

California State Senate | Democratic Caucus © 2025 | Privacy Policy | Accessibility Statement

Senator Cortese Joins Parents and Education Leaders in Celebrating Legislative Passage of “Melanie’s Law,” to Stop Youth Fentanyl Overdoses