January 24, 2025

For Immediate Release

Contact: Elisa Rivera

(559) 264-3070 Elisa.Rivera@sen.ca.gov

Senator Anna M. Caballero Introduces SB 72, California Water for All, to Modernize Water Planning

Sacramento, CA – Senator Anna M. Caballero (D-Merced) introduced SB 72 , California Water for All , to modernize the California Water Plan to drought proof California and establish long-term water supply targets. This legislation addresses the state’s intensifying climate challenges and ensures high-quality water for urban, agricultural and environmental needs.

“A reliable and sustainable water supply is critical to California's economy and to the quality of life for all Californians. While intermittent storms can give California a reprieve; prolonged droughts, aging infrastructure, more frequent and severe wildfires, population and economic growth, antiquated state policies and climate change impacts present unique challenges that threaten the survival of entire communities and sectors of the economy. Despite decades of work to improve California's water system, our infrastructure remains woefully inadequate to meet present and future needs. SB 72 would establish reasonable water supply targets to ensure the state adequately plans for water for all uses, including our urban areas, agriculture and the environment, by modernizing the California Water Plan for a 21st century climate. SB 72 would require that state agencies develop a plan to achieve set targets, in consultation with local water agencies, wastewater service providers and other stakeholders. This bill is an important and timely part of a comprehensive, long-term water supply solution that will transform water management for generations to come.” –Senator Anna M. Caballero (D-Merced)

For over 20 years, California’s Water Plan—mandated by Water Code Section 10005(a)—has remained unchanged, despite the state’s growing population and the devastating impacts of extreme weather events, including prolonged droughts, destructive floods and declining groundwater reserves.

Recent studies project a future water supply shortfall without state intervention of 4.6 to 9 million acre-feet annually by 2050 . This shortfall represents up to 90% of California’s urban water use or the irrigation of 3 million acres of farmland.

SB 72 aims to close this gap by:

Setting an interim target of 9 million acre-feet of additional water supply by 2040 .

Establishing long-term water supply targets using a 50-year planning horizon.

Requiring state agencies to develop actionable plans to meet these targets.

California has made significant investments to combat water shortages, including over $8 billion for water infrastructure and management projects. The Administration’s 2022 “Water Supply Strategy: Adapting to a Hotter, Drier Future” laid critical groundwork, outlining strategies to address the state’s changing water needs. SB 72 builds on this momentum and ensures that water supply targets and strategies are sustained beyond any single administration.

SB 72 is co-sponsored by the California Municipal Utilities Association (CMUA), the California State Association of Counties (CSAC) and the California Council for Environmental & Economic Balance (CCEEB) , highlighting its broad support from stakeholders committed to sustainability, economic resilience and environmental protection.

“CMUA is proud to co-sponsor this vital legislation with CSAC and CCEEB. Our state is long overdue for a new strategy on how to best manage our water supply and plan for the future,” said Danielle Blacet-Hyden, Executive Director. There is an urgent need for new strategies to address California’s aging water infrastructure and plan for the impacts of climate change. By modernizing the California Water Plan, SB 72 ensures a future where water resources are resilient, reliable and equitable for all.”

For interviews or inquiries, please contact: Elisa Rivera at (559) 264-3070

Senator Anna M. Caballero represents the 14 th Senate District, composed of majority portions of Merced, Fresno and Madera Counties. She is the Chair of the Senate Appropriations Committee and a Member of the Middle Mile Advisory Committee among others.

Office Information

Capitol

Office

1021 O Street, Suite 7620

Sacramento, CA 95814

Phone: (916) 651-4014

Fresno

District Office

2550 Mariposa Mall, Suite 2016

Fresno, CA 93721

Phone: (559) 264-3070

Merced

510 West Main Street, Suite E

Merced, CA 95340

Phone: (209) 726-5495

California State Senate | Democratic Caucus © | Privacy Policy | Accessibility Statement