For Immediate Release

Contact: Elisa Rivera

(559) 264-3070 Elisa.Rivera@sen.ca.gov

Senator Anna M. Caballero Delivers for Rural Communities in the Salinas Valley

SACRAMENTO: Senator Anna M. Caballero (D-Merced) successfully secured $1.8 million to fund essential community projects in the rural, agricultural portion of the Salinas Valley. She will spend the day visiting each city to present a ceremonial check and tour each site.

“I have served the Salinas Valley as an attorney and elected representative for many years and consider it an honor and privilege to be able to continue to serve through 2024. I understand that small, rural communities need resources and investment and that is why it is important for me to work closely with communities to identify priorities. This funding is an example of what we can accomplish when we all work together.” –Senator Anna Caballero, Senate District 14

“King City greatly appreciates Senator Caballero‘s targeted investments for our community. She knows rural communities have many needs, that is why she secured funding for our Quint ladder truck to improve safety for all of our residents and provide an additional tool to create more housing and now she invests in our youth with today’s presentation of $400,000 for city park facilities for a healthier, happier, higher quality of life. Thank you, Senator Caballero.” –King City Mayor, Mike LeBarre

“Senator Caballero has played an instrumental role in King City’s efforts to address high priority needs while resolving a two-decade long financial crisis. We are very excited to put into service a critical new fire apparatus, which would not have been possible without her efforts to secure State funding for the acquisition. It will be instrumental in improving fire response, enabling future development, and maintaining the City’s fire rating to lower insurance costs for all the community. Now, she has secured additional funds to help address some of the City’s serious deferred maintenance and recreational needs by improving amenities at City Park.  Senator Caballero’s efforts to help King City have made a major impact in improving our community!” –King City, City Manager, Steve Adams

“ We truly appreciate the funding of this project. This will greatly enhance the communication of all our first responders improving public safety and response times in emergency situations.” -Greenfield Mayor, Robert White

“We are truly grateful for Senator Caballero’s leadership and commitment to public safety. Her efforts in securing $1 million in funding for the Greenfield radio tower benefits all first responders and helps ensure a safer and more resilient community. This vital investment is critical to ensure seamless communication, safeguarding lives, and property for our residents. We extend our heartfelt thanks to Senator Caballero as we build a safer and stronger community.” –Greenfield Chief of Police, Guillermo Mixer

“We are truly grateful for the continued investments Senator Caballero has made in our community.  She has been a true champion for rural communities and has continued to invest in our most valued priorities, our youth, our families and our public safety. Last year the City of Soledad received $2 million dollars to purchase a fire truck with a ladder to improve fire response time and support future high-density housing developments to meet the critical housing needs of our community.

"This year Senator Caballero continues to support our families by allocating $400,000 in state funds to the Soledad Mission Recreation District for improvements, maintenance and reduction of water and natural gas, making the pool more energy efficient and implementing long-term sustainable water conservation practices. Being the only indoor pool in South Monterey County, this investment will ensure our children; families and future generations continue to have access to affordable swim lessons and an array of aquatic programming.  I’m excited for our families to enjoy cherished lasting memories like the many I have of swimming in the pool as a little girl, taking my boys to swim lessons, hosting birthday parties at the pool and cheering on my son’s swim team. The Soledad community extends a heartfelt thank you to Senator Caballero for her continuous investments in our families.” -Soledad City Mayor, Anna Velazquez

“An investment in our swimming pool has exponential positive impact in Soledad. It means an investment in the provision of life saving skills, in our students and high school athletics, in our senior and mobility challenged community, in health and fitness, in resource conservation, and in many first time jobs. The Soledad Pool is a special place built and kept alive by the amazing people and swimming community; it is full of personal connection and shared memories for our town. Small special districts like ours are challenged to maintain aging facilities, keep programs affordable and keep up with the ever-rising cost of providing these facilities and programs. Our community deserves a revitalized and rehabilitated facility for continued enjoyment and benefit, and our board is dedicated to boldly pursuing additional investments and improvements for not only our community but also the region. We are so grateful for our local representatives and Sen. Caballero in championing this first step." - Soledad- Mission Recreation District, Frances Bengston, Executive Director

The Senator’s itinerary is as follows:

1. King City: Monday October 9, 2023 at 10 AM $400,000 to upgrade Park Recreation Center

Who:

Senator Anna Caballero

Mayor Mike LeBarre

City Manager, Steve Adams

Recreation Department Manager, Andrea Wasson

Location:

King City Hall

212 South Vanderhurst Avenue

King City, CA 93930

What:

Check Presentation to the City of King for $400,000 to upgrade park recreation facilities. *Immediately following the check presentation, there will be a Ribbon Cutting Ceremony in celebration of the acquisition of a Quint Aerial Apparatus purchased with $1 Million in funding previously secured by Senator Caballero.

2. City of Greenfield Monday October 9, 2023 at 11:30 AM

Mayor Robert White

Chief of Police, Guillermo Mixer

Fire Chief, Jim Langborg

City Hall

599 El Camino Real

Greenfield, CA 93927

Check Presentation Ceremony for $1 million for radio transmission and reception improvements.

3. City of Soledad Monday October 9, 2023 at 2:30 PM

Mayor, Anna Velazquez

Mission Recreation District, Frances Bengston,

Monterey County District 3 Supervisor, Chris Lopez

Soledad-Mission Recreation District Board Members

Soledad Unified School District Board President Ivan Mora

Sophia Garcia, Soledad Senior Community Member

Christina Castorena, representing the Soledad Youth Swim Team High School Swim Team, and Employees.

Kate McKenna, LAFCO, Monterey County, Executive Officer

Recreation District

570 Walker Dr.

Soledad, CA 93960

What :

Check Presentation for the Soledad-Mission Recreation District for $400,000 for improvements and maintenance of the Soledad Mission Recreation District in South Monterey County to ensure affordable aquatic programming for the community and to reduce the use of water and natural gas.

For interviews or inquiries, please contact Elisa Rivera at (559) 264-3070

Senator Anna M. Caballero represents the 14 th Senate District, composed of majority portions of Merced, Fresno and Madera Counties.

* Senator Anna M. Caballero serves as the Interim Representative for the Salinas Valley and San Benito County until 2024 when a newly elected Senator will assume the district

Office Information

Capitol

Office

1021 O Street, Suite 7620

Sacramento, CA 95814

Phone: (916) 651-4014

Fresno

District Office

2550 Mariposa Mall, Suite 2016

Fresno, CA 93721

Phone: (559) 264-3070

Merced

510 West Main Street, Suite E

Merced, CA 95340

Phone: (209) 726-5495

California State Senate | Democratic Caucus © | Privacy Policy | Accessibility Statement