The Senate Business and Professions Committee advanced legislation today by Senator Dave Cortese to address California’s severe nursing shortage, which has compromised patient care and imposed unfair working conditions on current nurses. Senate Bill (SB) 1015 represents a significant move toward more equitable and accessible hands-on training for nursing students.

Although the nurse staffing crisis has improved since the worst of the COVID-19 pandemic, California continues to suffer from a severe nursing workforce shortage. A staggering 92 out of 152 nursing programs report being denied access to clinical placements. This drop in the number of available nurses has caused delays in patient care and created a harmful cycle of nurse attrition and burnout. SB 1015 will disrupt this cycle by streamlining the process for nursing students to secure crucial clinical training. The bill also helps the Board of Registered Nursing (BRN) ensure fair access to training opportunities for both private and public nursing programs.

“When someone has a medical issue, the last thing they need to worry about is their ability to quickly see a nurse,” said Senator Cortese (D-San Jose). “Nurses also deserve fair working conditions, and student nurses deserve equitable placements into their on-the-job trainings. SB 1015 addresses the nursing shortage by improving the workforce pipeline. We’re preparing California for a brighter future with an enhanced healthcare system.”

SB 1015 addresses the difficulty of nursing programs in securing enough clinical training placements for their nursing students, especially for public schools like community colleges and California State Universities. By giving the BRN the authority to set equitable standards for clinical placements, the bill seeks to create more opportunities for nursing students.

The bill also empowers the Nursing Education and Workforce Advisory Committee within the BRN to develop standards for nursing education and workforce advancement. It requires the BRN to annually gather and assess clinical placement availability and management data to ensure transparency and effectiveness.

Senator Dave Cortese represents Senate District 15, which encompasses San Jose and much of Santa Clara County in the heart of Silicon Valley. Visit Senator Cortese’s website: https://sd15.senate.ca.gov

###

Office Information

Capitol Office

1021 O Street Suite 7520 Sacramento, CA 95814

Phone: (916) 651-4015 Fax: (916) 651-4915

San Jose Office

1155 Meridian Avenue Suite 100 San Jose, CA 95125

Phone: (408) 723-4154 Fax: (408) 723-4159

California State Senate | Democratic Caucus © 2025 | Privacy Policy | Accessibility Statement

Senate Business and Professions Committee Advances Senator Cortese’s Bill to Address California’s Nursing Shortage by Improving the Nursing Workforce Pipeline