For Immediate Release

Thursday, March 20, 2025

Contact: Elisa Rivera

Elisa.Rivera@sen.ca.gov (559) 264-3070

Senator Anna M. Caballero Introduces SB 520, Legislation to Expand Nurse-Midwifery Education

to Improve Maternal and Infant Health and Address Maternal Health Disparities in Rural California

Sacramento, CA – In response to California’s growing maternal health crisis, Senator Anna M. Caballero (D-Merced) has introduced SB 520, The Nurse-Midwifery Education & Workforce Act , to expand access to maternal and infant health care by investing in the nurse-midwifery workforce. This legislation will establish the California Nurse-Midwifery Education Fund to support new midwifery master’s degree programs, ensuring that expecting mothers—particularly in rural and underserved areas—receive high-quality, evidence-based maternity care.

“Too many mothers and infants, especially in rural communities, face unnecessary risks due to the lack of labor and delivery services,” said Senator Caballero. “California must take immediate action to expand and strengthen our maternity care workforce. SB 520 will ensure more midwives are trained and available to provide life-saving care to mothers and babies in need.”

The United States has one of the highest maternal and newborn death rates among high-income countries and California is not immune to this crisis. Since 2013, more than 50 maternity units have closed and 20 freestanding birth centers have shuttered in the last three years alone. These closures create significant barriers to safe and timely reproductive healthcare, particularly in rural and medically underserved areas.

At the same time, California is experiencing a shortage of obstetric and reproductive health providers, limiting access to essential prenatal, labor and postpartum care. Without enough trained providers, maternal and infant health will continue to suffer, disproportionately affecting communities of color and low-income families.

Nurse-midwives play a critical role in reducing maternal and infant mortality while improving birth experiences and overall health of mothers and babies. Research shows that when midwives are well-integrated into health care systems, there are more spontaneous vaginal births, successful labor after Cesarean (TOLAC), vaginal births after Cesarean (VBAC), breastfeeding success rates and patient confidence during childbirth. Midwifery care is also linked to lower overall maternity care costs.

Despite these benefits, California currently has only one nurse-midwifery master’s degree program, located at CSU Fullerton. This lack of educational opportunities severely limits the number of midwives available to meet California’s growing maternal health needs.

SB 520 is sponsored by the California Nurse-Midwives Association. Kim Q. Dau, Co-Chair of the California Nurse-Midwives Association’s Workforce Development and Education Support Committee explains, “California is in the midst of a maternal health crisis, and we cannot afford to stand by. Expanding access to midwifery is not just part of the solution—it’s essential. Senator Caballero’s bill is a bold and necessary step toward strengthening our maternity care system. By funding new midwifery education programs, we can break down barriers to care, grow a more diverse workforce, and ensure more families receive the high-quality, evidence-based support they deserve. This is about saving lives, improving outcomes, and building a healthier future for all Californians.”

SB 520 establishes the California Nurse-Midwifery Education Fund within the Department of Health Care Access and Information (HCAI) to support new, state-based master’s degree programs in nurse-midwifery. By combining state and private funding SB 520 will expand access to maternity and reproductive health care in underserved and rural areas by increasing the number of clinically trained nurse-midwives, reducing maternal and infant mortality rates through evidence-based care, and address California’s growing health care workforce shortage.

For interviews or inquiries, please contact: Elisa Rivera at 559-264-3070

Senator Anna M. Caballero proudly represents California's 14th Senate District, leading efforts to advance clean energy, improve healthcare access, expand affordable housing and create opportunities for working families across Merced, Fresno, and Madera Counties.

###

Office Information

Capitol

Office

1021 O Street, Suite 7620

Sacramento, CA 95814

Phone: (916) 651-4014

Fresno

District Office

2550 Mariposa Mall, Suite 2016

Fresno, CA 93721

Phone: (559) 264-3070

Merced

510 West Main Street, Suite E

Merced, CA 95340

Phone: (209) 726-5495

California State Senate | Democratic Caucus © | Privacy Policy | Accessibility Statement

Senator Anna M. Caballero Introduces SB 520, Legislation to Expand Nurse-Midwifery Education to Improve Maternal and Infant Health and Address Maternal Health Disparities in Rural California