Sacramento: Senator Anna M. Caballero (D-Salinas) is pleased to announce that the state budget includes $15 million to fund essential needs in five of the communities in the 12th Senate District. As the state enters an important economic recovery period post pandemic, this infusion of resources for rural, agricultural communities will be an important investment. The allocation of $15 Million will be distributed as follows:

•    $2 Million for the City of Mendota for public safety regional support •    $ 2 Million for the City of Firebaugh for public safety regional support •    $2 Million for the City of San Joaquin for public safety regional support •    $4 Million for the City of Huron for an ambulance and facility •    $5 Million for the City of Gonzalez for a teen innovation center “Small, rural communities desperately need resources to improve the infrastructure, health, safety and youth opportunities in their communities.” said Senator Caballero, “We worked very closely with every community to identify their priorities and we listened to their concerns. I am very pleased that the budget included funds to go directly to these cities to meet their needs. This is an example of what can be accomplished when we work together.” “As the Mayor of the City of Mendota, I would like to express my appreciation to Senator Caballero and staff for securing two million dollars for public safety regional support in the City of Mendota,” said Mayor Rolando Castro. “After years of advocating for the City of Mendota, I am extremely grateful for the support and action taken by Senator Caballero’s office. Our City is excited to move forward with the construction of a Police Department of its’ own.” “The city of Firebaugh is extremely thankful to Senator Anna Caballero and her staff for attaining the much needed funding for our police station,” said Mayor Valdez and Police Chief Raygoza, “This project was at a standstill until the Senator answered our calls for help. Together, we can provide our police officers and dispatchers with a police station that will serve as a focal point of public safety.” “The city of San Joaquin is grateful to Senator Caballero and her staff for securing $2 Million for our city. With the increase in crime that our city has faced, this allocation of funds will be critical for us to help work towards the goal of providing our community with public safety measures.” said Mayor Hernandez, “While there is still much work to be done, this funding puts us a step closer. We are thankful that Senator Caballero and her staff heard our pleas, and took action.” "All people deserve to have access to speedy emergency services. Currently, Huron residents wait a minimum of 30 minutes for an ambulance to arrive. At a time when every minute is critical, and could make the difference between life and death, this is unacceptable.” said Mayor Rey León, "This funding of $4 Million for our very own ambulance and facility, is a testament to the relentless advocacy of our Chief of Police, George Turegano and our Senator, Anna Caballero who has been a fierce champion for the city of Huron." “I cannot put into words how much your efforts to obtain funding for our new community center will mean to our entire community. Our community is very young- approximately 32% of the population is under the age of 18. The five million dollar state grant will help create a youth innovation center. The center will be a safe, centrally located place where our youth will have access to high-speed internet, computers, printers, and other amenities, that will help them better prepare for their future.” said Mayor Rios, “I remember when you were first elected mayor of Salinas, the first Latino mayor, I’m so proud and honored to have you as our State Senator. I pray for your continued good health and again thank you sincerely for all you do for our little community.”

For interviews or inquiries, please contact Elisa Rivera at (209) 726-5495 Senator Anna M. Caballero represents the 12th Senate District, composed of the Salinas Valley, Merced and San Benito Counties, and portions of Fresno, Madera and Stanislaus Counties.

Office Information

Capitol

Office

1021 O Street, Suite 7620

Sacramento, CA 95814

Phone: (916) 651-4014

Fresno

District Office

2550 Mariposa Mall, Suite 2016

Fresno, CA 93721

Phone: (559) 264-3070

Merced

510 West Main Street, Suite E

Merced, CA 95340

Phone: (209) 726-5495

California State Senate | Democratic Caucus © | Privacy Policy | Accessibility Statement

Senator Anna M. Caballero Secures $15 Million in the State Budget for District Essential Public Safety Projects