Today, Senator Dave Cortese joined with leaders in special education to launch the “Corazon Care” Advisory Board, with a mission to create a new “Corazon Care” Campus in Santa Clara County that will provide a safe and inclusive recreational space for children diagnosed with Autism Spectrum Disorder (ASD).

"Corazon Care" aims to transform an existing facility in Santa Clara County into a both indoor and outdoor, secure environment designed to meet the unique needs of children with ASD. The project is set to enhance the physical and emotional well-being of these children while creating a supportive community for their families and caregivers.

The Corazon Care Campus will offer a range of sensory toys, outdoor play areas, and other features to accommodate children with diverse sensory considerations, taking into account temperature, lighting, acoustic sound, physical features, and sensory stimuli.

The Advisory Board is comprised of individuals that bring expertise and a dedication to creating safe and inclusive spaces for children with ASD.

ADVISORY BOARD MEMBERS INCLUDE:

Dave Cortese (California State Senator)

Enrique S. Flores (Parent Advisor)

Rocio Ramirez Flores (Parent Advisor)

Bob Nuñez (The Nunez Family Foundation)

Father Greg Boyle of San Jose (Founder and Director of Jobs for a Future & Homeboy Industries)

Dr. Mary Ann Dewan (Santa Clara County Superintendent of Schools)

Claudia Rossi (Former President & Member of the Santa Clara County Board of Education)

Rocio Abundis (Prevention Bureau Manager at the Department of Family and Children Services for the County of Santa Clara)

Dr. Harold Jules Hoyle, Ph.D. (Senior Lecturer in the Department of Education at Santa Clara University)

Martin Slyngstad (Founder of Spire Autism)

Julio Villarreal (LCSW Chief Clinical Officer of Rebekah Children's Services)

Dr. Dosun Ko (Director of Special Education in the School of Education and Counseling Psychology for Santa Clara University)

Dr. Nikki Citerella (Coordinator of Academics and Wellness at the Morgan Hill Unified School District)

Francisco Valenzuela (Government Affairs, San Andreas Regional Center)

The Corazon Care Advisory Board, with the leadership of State Senator Dave Cortese, will provide guidance and support to ensure the launch of the new Corazon Care Campus.

State Senator Dave Cortese says, “Families with children diagnosed with Autism Spectrum Disorder face significant challenges in finding safe and enjoyable recreational experiences; many parents have expressed to me their concerns and frustrations around the lack of suitable options for their children. Corazon Care is a new project that is a testament to this community's dedication to inclusivity and will mark a significant step forward in addressing the need for recreational spaces where children with ASD can learn, play, and thrive.”

Enrique S. Flores helped to form the Corazon Care Advisory Board with Senator Cortese. He serves as an Emergency Response Social Worker for the County of Santa Clara. His dedication to mentoring at-risk and high-risk youth spans over 25 years. Enrique is the Founder of several intervention and prevention programs, including the East Side Heroes Scholarships, the Corazon Project Leadership Development Program, and the Project Inspire After School Team Mentoring Program.

Enrique S. Flores says, “As a family, we embraced our son’s Autism Spectrum Disorder diagnosis as a gift and when we shared the Corazon Care Vision, our Corazon family grew into an unstoppable force of love, support, and lifelong partnerships.”

Office Information

Capitol Office

1021 O Street Suite 7520 Sacramento, CA 95814

Phone: (916) 651-4015 Fax: (916) 651-4915

San Jose Office

1155 Meridian Avenue Suite 100 San Jose, CA 95125

Phone: (408) 723-4154 Fax: (408) 723-4159

California State Senate | Democratic Caucus © 2025 | Privacy Policy | Accessibility Statement

Senator Cortese Joins Leaders in Special Education to Launch "Corazon Care"