WHITTIER – Senator Bob Archuleta (D-Pico Rivera) celebrated a major budget win for Senate District 32 by announcing $5,019,000 in funding for Parnell Park in the City of Whittier for improvements and renovations that will upgrade the park’s facilities, and enhance the community’s ability to enjoy this vital open space resource for generations to come. The Upcoming improvements were publicly announced during a community celebration on Friday, October 15, 2021 alongside residents and city leaders as part of the Senator’s ongoing commitment to family recreation and education centers.

“During this past year and a half, we all found a renewed appreciation for our cherished parks and recreational facilities as they offered us an outdoor space to exercise and take a break from our homes during stressful times. I am excited to see a much-loved part of our community receive funding that will enhance the quality of life for everyone who visits and lives near Parnell Park. This park is a rarity for offering something for all of our community members: a petting zoo in an urban setting that brings farm animals to children for hands on learning, a community and senior center for event hosting opportunities, and athletic facilities for basketball and tennis next to playgrounds and picnic tables.”

Parnell Park is located within the City of Whittier at 15390 Lambert Road, at the intersection of Scott Avenue and Lambert Road, and is within walking distance of hundreds of homes, thousands of residents, a middle school and two elementary schools, meaning this budget win will be felt in many households for generations to come.

“This is truly a generational investment in our community as parents, children, and families will all be able to better enjoy Parnell Park for many years to come with the improvements and renovations this budget win will make possible. I am truly committed to these kind of generational improvements in our community, and am excited about future opportunities to serve our community by working for more budget wins for the City of Whittier.”

Senator Bob Archuleta represents the 32nd Senate District, which includes portions of Los Angeles County and Orange County. He is Chair of the Senate Committee on Military and Veterans Affairs, Chair of the Select Committee on Hydrogen Energy, and member of the Senate Select Committee on California, Armenia and Artsakh Mutual Trade, Art and Cultural Exchange.

###

Office Information

Capitol Office

1021 O Street, Suite 6620

Sacramento, CA 95814

Phone: (916) 651-4030

District Office

12501 Imperial Hwy. Ste. 110

Norwalk, CA 90650

Phone: (562) 406-1001

California State Senate | Democratic Caucus © 2025 | Privacy Policy | Accessibility Statement