For Immediate Release Contact: Elisa Rivera (209) 726-5495 Elisa.Rivera@sen.ca.gov (Caballero) Anita Hellam, CEO: ahellam@hfhmsc.org (Habitat)

PLANADA- Following their extensive work in the legislature on building housing opportunities for all, Senator Caballero, Assemblywoman Soria, staff members and other stakeholders will spend Saturday, August 19, volunteering with Habitat for Humanity Merced/Stanislaus Counties to help repair walls, following damage from devastating winter flooding. The group will spend the day working alongside Habitat staff and community members hanging drywall in the 1,300 square foot home.

This event is proceeded by a generous earmark in the California State budget for $50,000, made possible by Assembly Speaker Robert Rivas, a champion for affordable housing, to  assist flood recovery work in Planada and other Merced County communities. The designation ensures that families in these communities are able to share Habitat’s vision of a world where everyone has equitable access to a safe, decent, and affordable place to call home.

“It is difficult to imagine the devastation suffered by families who lost everything in the flooding last year in the small rural community of Planada. I have been happy to see so many people and organizations surround the community of Planada to help residents as they recover and rebuild from the damage. I am grateful for the opportunity to partner with Habitat for Humanity, and to know that we are making a real difference for families anxious to get home.” Senator Anna M. Caballero, Senate District 14

To learn more about Habitat for Humanity, visit www.hfhmsc.org .

About Habitat for Humanity Merced/Stanislaus Counties Habitat for Humanity Merced/Stanislaus Counties partners with local families of all races, ethnicities, ages, faiths, and backgrounds who earn 80% of area median income and whose housing situation is unsafe, too crowded, or otherwise unaffordable. We actively work to end racism and unconscious bias. Over 50% of our homes are owned by people of color, and over 75% are owned by single women. Habitat homeowners help build their own homes alongside volunteers and pay an affordable mortgage. Through financial support, volunteering or adding a voice to support affordable housing, everyone can help families achieve the strength, stability and self-reliance they need to build better lives for themselves. With an affordable home, families are able to pay for healthy food, medicine, transportation and to save for their children’s education.

Through shelter, we empower.

Senator Anna M. Caballero represents the 14th Senate District, composed of majority portions of Merced, Fresno and Madera Counties.

* Senator Anna M. Caballero serves as the Interim Representative for the Salinas Valley and San Benito County until 2024 when a newly elected Senator will assume the district

###

Office Information

Capitol

Office

1021 O Street, Suite 7620

Sacramento, CA 95814

Phone: (916) 651-4014

Fresno

District Office

2550 Mariposa Mall, Suite 2016

Fresno, CA 93721

Phone: (559) 264-3070

Merced

510 West Main Street, Suite E

Merced, CA 95340

Phone: (209) 726-5495

California State Senate | Democratic Caucus © | Privacy Policy | Accessibility Statement

Senator Caballero, Assemblywoman Soria, volunteer with Habitat for Humanity Merced/Stanislaus Counties