Newsletter: Sign Up For The Latest Updates

(Sacramento, CA) — A key policy in State Senator Dr. Aisha Wahab’s (D-Silicon Valley) housing package passed the Senate and moves to the Assembly. Senate Bill (SB) 436 extends the 3-day notice to terminate tenancy for nonpayment of rent to 14-days.

“This bill is a win-win for tenants and landlords,” said Dr. Wahab. “The goal of this bill is housing stability. We are protecting seniors, single parents, disabled tenants, and all renters who experience occasional financial uncertainty.”

There are over two dozen states with “pay or quit” periods longer than 3-days, and SB 436 brings California in line with Massachusetts, New York, Tennessee, Vermont, Virginia, and Washington.

Under California law, before an eviction case can be filed based on nonpayment of rent, a landlord must first serve the renter a three-day notice to pay or quit. Once the three-day notice expires, a renter can be evicted. This exceptionally short timeline makes it very difficult for renters who fall behind on rent to stay housed – even if they are able to access emergency rental assistance, family loans, or additional wages before the eviction court process is complete.

SB 436 is sponsored by Los Angeles Right to Counsel Coalition, Public Advocates, Tenants Together, Western Center on Law and Poverty.

“Senate Bill 436 gives tenants the crucial gift of time – time to collect their last paycheck or ask friends and family for help to pay their rent, time to apply for rental assistance, and time to get legal counsel or advice. This change goes a long way towards preventing unnecessary evictions and keeping families safely housed.”

– Shane Henson, member of the Los Angeles Renters’ Right to Counsel Coalition

"We're thrilled to see SB 436 pass out of the Senate and thank Senator Wahab for her leadership on this critical homelessness prevention bill. California's eviction laws haven't been updated since 1863—during the Civil War—giving tenants just three days to pay late rent while property owners get months to catch up on mortgages. With rent prices growing 325% faster than incomes and 45% of California households renting, extending the notice period to 14 days will help renters AND landlords avoid unnecessary evictions. When SB 436 becomes law, millions of our neighbors and California renters will finally have a fair chance to access rental assistance, secure another paycheck, or find legal help before losing their homes. This is a win for everyone."

-Suzanne Dershowitz, Senior Staff Attorney, Public Advocates

"As we brace for nationwide economic instability and unprecedented threats to the federal social safety net, it is more urgent than ever to give Californians the opportunity to pay and stay housed when they miss a paycheck, a Social Security check, or a housing voucher, through no fault of their own. SB 436 updates an 1863 law to meet the challenges we face in 2025."

– Shanti Singh, Legislative & Communications Director, Tenants Together

“No person or family should lose their home just because they needed a few more days to pull together their rent, especially in a state facing a housing crisis. SB 436 gives Californians experiencing a temporary setback or financial emergency a reasonable opportunity to stay housed.”

-Benjamin Henderson, Policy Advocate, Western Center on Law and Poverty

Office Information

Capitol Office

1021 O Street

Suite 8530

Sacramento, CA 95814

Phone: (916) 651-4410

Fremont

39510 Paseo Padre Parkway

Suite 280

Fremont, CA 94538

Phone: (510) 794-3900

California State Senate | Democratic Caucus © | Privacy Policy | Accessibility Statement