SAN JOSE— Senator Dave Cortese (D-San Jose) and San Jose Vice Mayor Rosemary Kamei led a moving Town Hall on Gender Equity and Justice in San Jose today, emphasizing the critical need for comprehensive support and protection for survivors of harassment and domestic violence through legislation like SB 554, the Survivor's Protection Act.

Hosted at Lynbrook High School Auditorium in San Jose, the event convened community leaders, advocates, and residents to foster a forward-thinking dialogue on childcare, workforce equity, and violence prevention—elements that serve as a barometer for progress toward gender equity and justice in Santa Clara County and across California.

Senator Cortese’s landmark SB 554 legislation, which will bolster legal protections for survivors of abuse by expanding the ability to obtain a restraining order, was a key point of discussion. The Survivor's Protection Act represents a significant stride towards safeguarding individuals and their families from further harm, ensuring justice knows no bounds.

“Today, we continue our fight for gender equity and justice to dismantle the barriers that hinder the progress of women and girls,” said Senator Dave Cortese (D-San Jose) . “SB 554, the Survivor's Protection Act, is one element of our commitment to ensuring that survivors have unimpeded access to the protections they desperately need. Together, we will  dismantle barriers and foster a community of equality, safety, and opportunity for all.”

“We need to keep conversations surrounding childcare access, gender equity, and intimate partner violence at the top of our minds,” said San Jose Vice Mayor Rosemary Kamei (District 1). “Even as we make progress on other issues, these topics show little advancement. As a City, we need to realize how critical it is to address these topics and have continuous improvement.”

“When I was sexually assaulted in 2022, I was made powerless twice –  once when my body was violated and again when I faced our broken justice system,” said Nazeehah Khan, founder of Restraining Orders Without Borders. “The Survivors Protection Act changes that for 9 million resident survivors and the 258 annual California visitors who grapple with navigating safety in an increasingly interconnected world. While California has made strides in survivor protection, immense progress remains, and we thank Senator Cortese and today’s speakers for ardently fighting for that progress. Today marks an important day for California’s victims as we bring to light what SB 554 means for California, survivors’ protection, and ultimately, for survivors’ lives.”

“We are so grateful to Senator Cortese for hosting the Gender Equity and Justice Town Hall. It offers us a community-centered opportunity to acknowledge the good work being done here in Santa Clara County to advance the well-being of women, girls, and femme-identifying folks and, importantly, to address the gaps that remain to be filled,” said Cassandra Staff, manager with the County of Santa Clara Office of Woman’s Policy. “We must both celebrate our progress and push for more. Until positions of power reflect the community, until the gender pay and racial wealth gaps are eliminated, and until we live in a community where women and girls prosper and live self-determined lives, we must remain champions for change.”

“I am so pleased that Senator Cortese and Vice-Mayor Kamei have chosen to highlight the child care crisis facing our communities in Silicon Valley as part of this important event focused on equity,” said Jennifer Kelleher Cloyd, Executive Director of FIRST 5 Santa Clara County. “As a working mom and leader in the child advocacy space, I know how challenging it is to focus on work if you can’t find care that works for your child and family’s needs.  And I can imagine how much bigger that challenge becomes when you have to choose between paying for child care or other basic needs.”

“I’m honored to be a part of the Gender Equity & Justice Town Hall and to highlight some of Santa Clara County's efforts to address gender-based violence in our community,” said Carla Collins, Manager of the Office of Gender-Based Violence Prevention, Division of Equity & Social Justice. “These efforts really took hold while Senator Cortese was a county supervisor. Strengthening these efforts at the city, county, and state levels is the best way to ensure the highest quality of care is available for survivors of violence and their families. We also must strategically address both intervention and prevention. Everyone should be safe at home, at school and work, online, and in the community. Working together, we can create a safer community and work to end gender-based violence.”

“Substance use and intimate partner violence are very often linked,” said Pat Mitchell, Chief Administrative Officer of Momentum for Health. “Many women experiencing IPV turn to drugs and alcohol as an escape from abuse at the hands of a partner, or because their partner coerced them into trying substances as a form of control or manipulation. We need to look at both realities to understand how to best support survivors. I look forward to this conversation that highlights gender-responsive policies and programs that improve outcomes in our community.”

”The Santa Clara County Office of Education greatly values the partnerships uplifting childcare accessibility and affordability. Having access to high-quality, affordable childcare is not only important to the educational journey of a child, but it also has an impact on our community. Families often find childcare a barrier to returning to the workforce. The average weekly tuition for infant care in Santa Clara County is over $460. The Santa Clara County Office of Education is committed to helping families find care through its Childcare Resource and Referral Program, increasing quality support through its Early Care and Education Initiatives, and helping to further the early learning workforce development through its Educator Preparation Program.”

Senator Dave Cortese represents Senate District 15, which encompasses most of San Jose and much of Santa Clara County in the heart of Silicon Valley. Visit Senator Cortese’s website: https://sd15.senate.ca.gov

###

Office Information

Capitol Office

1021 O Street Suite 7520 Sacramento, CA 95814

Phone: (916) 651-4015 Fax: (916) 651-4915

San Jose Office

1155 Meridian Avenue Suite 100 San Jose, CA 95125

Phone: (408) 723-4154 Fax: (408) 723-4159

California State Senate | Democratic Caucus © 2025 | Privacy Policy | Accessibility Statement

Senator Cortese and Vice Mayor Kamei Champion Gender Equity and Justice at Town Hall