LOS ANGELES – State Senator María Elena Durazo (D-Los Angeles) today released the following statement regarding the Los Angeles Homeless Services Authority's 2025 Point in Time Count, which showed a 4% decrease in homelessness countywide and a 3.4% decrease in the City of Los Angeles:

"I’m pleased to see that homelessness in Los Angeles has declined for two consecutive years. This represents the largest two-year decrease since counting began in 2005. While I am encouraged by this progress, we cannot lose sight of the fact that over 72,000 of our neighbors across the County are still without homes. These decreases are significant but fragile. With federal funding cuts on the horizon and ongoing budget constraints at the state and local levels, we risk losing the progress we've achieved. The need for affordable housing remains acute – with nearly 500,000 households in LA County lacking access to affordable homes. As we transition to new governance structures for homeless services, we must ensure that this collaborative approach continues. The state has been and must remain a strong partner in providing the resources and policy support needed to build permanent housing and prevent homelessness before it occurs. I commend Mayor Bass and local leaders for their urgent, coordinated response that is delivering real results for Angelenos. Every person represented in this count deserves dignity, safety, and a pathway to permanent housing. We have shown that progress is possible when we act with urgency and coordination. Now we must sustain and accelerate that progress."

"I’m pleased to see that homelessness in Los Angeles has declined for two consecutive years. This represents the largest two-year decrease since counting began in 2005. While I am encouraged by this progress, we cannot lose sight of the fact that over 72,000 of our neighbors across the County are still without homes.

These decreases are significant but fragile. With federal funding cuts on the horizon and ongoing budget constraints at the state and local levels, we risk losing the progress we've achieved. The need for affordable housing remains acute – with nearly 500,000 households in LA County lacking access to affordable homes.

As we transition to new governance structures for homeless services, we must ensure that this collaborative approach continues. The state has been and must remain a strong partner in providing the resources and policy support needed to build permanent housing and prevent homelessness before it occurs. I commend Mayor Bass and local leaders for their urgent, coordinated response that is delivering real results for Angelenos.

Every person represented in this count deserves dignity, safety, and a pathway to permanent housing. We have shown that progress is possible when we act with urgency and coordination. Now we must sustain and accelerate that progress."

###

Senator María Elena Durazo represents the 26th Senate District, which includes a diverse array of Los Angeles neighborhoods, including Boyle Heights, El Sereno, Highland Park, Eagle Rock, Glassell Park, Mt. Washington, Cypress Park, Lincoln Heights, Atwater Village, Elysian Valley, Arlington Heights, Echo Park, Silver Lake, Los Feliz, East Hollywood, Little Armenia, Thai Town, Larchmont, Koreatown, Pico-Union, Westlake-MacArthur Park, Historic Filipinotown, Chinatown, Little Tokyo, the Arts District, Civic Center, City Terrace, East Los Angeles, and the City of Vernon.

Office Information

Capitol Office

1021 O Street, Suite 7530

Sacramento, CA 95814

Phone: (916) 651-4026

Los Angeles

1808 W. Sunset Blvd.

Los Angeles, CA 90026

Phone: (213) 483-9300

California State Senate | Democratic Caucus © | Privacy Policy | Accessibility Statement