Senator Dave Cortese joined community leaders in announcing $3 million in state funding for a mixed-use complex known as the Silicon Valley African American Cultural Center. The Center, which will be located at 2001 The Alameda, will include affordable homes, a health clinic, a performing arts theater, a museum, athletic facilities, and retail spaces.

The African American Cultural Center is Silicon Valley’s first Black-owned nonprofit community development entity, and this signature project will act as a central gathering place for African Americans engaged in business, wellness, shopping, or lively cultural events.

“This landmark investment will create a centerpiece for African American culture — not just for Santa Clara County, but for the entire state of California,” said Senator Cortese (D-San Jose). “The Silicon Valley African American Cultural Center will redefine possibilities of multi-use development, becoming a true hub for African American culture, health, and camaraderie. The iconic Center will bring people from diverse backgrounds together and cultivate a strong sense of unity and appreciation.”

“We are grateful to State Senator Cortese for his kind and generous grant to the Silicon Valley African American Cultural Center development. This grant will go a long way to making our communities’ dreams come true,” said Walter Wilson, the development’s project manager . “The grant will go a long way to making it happen, affordable housing, clinic, retail, commercial, the new home of the African American Community Services agency complex, and so much more.”

“On behalf of the Silicon Valley African American Cultural Center, I would like to thank State Senator Dave Cortese for his gracious support for a three million dollar grant towards constructing a state of the art, mixed-use affordable housing development,” said Joanna Farris, CEO and Chairman of the Board of Directors of the African American Cultural Center. “This development was conceived with the community for the community and will be aesthetically spectacular while providing services such as health and wellness for its residents as well as the community at large. We look forward to your continued support.”

“Thank you Senator Dave Cortese for supporting the dynamic affordable housing development for the African American Community and the City of San Jose with a three million dollar grant,” said Gale Simmons, Treasurer for the Board of Directors of the African American Cultural Center . “It will be the Silicon Valley African American Cultural Center’s signature development and will provide onsite health and mental health services, an art and sport venue, as well as a modern site for the African American Service Agency. This development will be eco-friendly and easily assessable by public transportation and with a progressive design.”

Roots Clinic and Ujima Adult & Family Services, both organizations dedicated to offering African American-centered health and behavioral health services, will also establish their facilities on the site.

In 2007, the African American Community Service Agency Board of Directors formed the African American Cultural Center, a nonprofit community development corporation, for the purpose of creating, developing, and building the Silicon Valley African American Signature Project. This signature project was undertaken by the African American Cultural Center in partnership with the African American Community Services Agency.

###

Office Information

Capitol Office

1021 O Street Suite 7520 Sacramento, CA 95814

Phone: (916) 651-4015 Fax: (916) 651-4915

San Jose Office

1155 Meridian Avenue Suite 100 San Jose, CA 95125

Phone: (408) 723-4154 Fax: (408) 723-4159

California State Senate | Democratic Caucus © 2025 | Privacy Policy | Accessibility Statement

Senator Cortese Announces a Major State Investment in the African American Cultural Center