Sacramento, CA – Senator Bob Archuleta (D-Pico Rivera) proudly announces Patricia “Patty” Yoon as the 2025 Woman of the Year, honored on the Senate floor on March 10, 2025, in recognition of Women’s History Month. A distinguished entrepreneur and community leader, Patty Yoon has made a lasting impact on both the business sector and the communities she serves.

Patty is the President of Yoon Family McDonald’s, overseeing 14 McDonald’s franchises across Los Angeles County, with four in the 30 th District – Bellflower, Norwalk and Santa Fe Springs. She became the youngest applicant ever accepted into McDonald’s franchisee training and, in 1999, purchased her first two restaurants in West Los Angeles. Today, she is the only single female Asian American McDonald’s franchisee in California and the largest female Asian American McDonald’s franchisee in the United States.

“Patty Yoon’s journey – from an immigrant family overcoming hardship to becoming a pioneering entrepreneur and community leader – embodies the resilience, determination, and spirit we celebrate during Women’s History Month,” Senator Archuleta said. “Her dedication to her employees, her businesses, and the broader community is truly inspiring.”

Beyond McDonald’s, Patty was a pioneer in the wellness industry, serving as President of SY Health Corp. and introducing the first Korean Spa concept in the U.S. with Olympic Spa in Los Angeles while still an undergraduate at USC.

A proud daughter of a U.S. Army veteran, Patty immigrated from South Korea at the age of 2. She grew up working in her family’s restaurant, instilling the grit and determination that define her success today. Committed to giving back, she provides housing subsidies, tuition assistance, and career programs for her 650 employees and supports local schools, nonprofits, and first responders. She also serves on the Board of Trustees for the West Los Angeles Ronald McDonald House, leading efforts to expand support for children and families.

While Patty has built an extraordinary career, her greatest accomplishment is raising her three sons as a single parent. She takes immense pride in seeing them thrive – her eldest, Garrett, is a radiology resident after earning degrees from Cornell and NYU Medical School; Colin is an artist and professor with an M.F.A. from the Rhode Island School of Design; and Mason is following in her footsteps as a McDonald’s franchisee while pursuing a law degree at Loyola Law School.

###

Senator Bob Archuleta currently represents the 30th Senate District, which includes portions of Los Angeles County and Orange County. He is the Chair of the Senate Committee on Military and Veterans Affairs, and a member of the Business, Professions and Economic Development Committee, Governmental Organization Committee, Transportation Committee, as well as the Joint Legislative Committee on Emergency Management. Website of Senator Bob Archuleta: https://sd30.senate.ca.gov/

Office Information

Capitol Office

1021 O Street, Suite 6620

Sacramento, CA 95814

Phone: (916) 651-4030

District Office

12501 Imperial Hwy. Ste. 110

Norwalk, CA 90650

Phone: (562) 406-1001

California State Senate | Democratic Caucus © 2025 | Privacy Policy | Accessibility Statement