Traver: Senator Anna M. Caballero (D-Salinas) was honored to join Governor Newson and colleagues at a rural elementary school in the county unincorporated community of Traver. At the press conference, historic legislation announced last week , was signed. AB/SB 156 provides $6 billion in investment to expand broadband infrastructure, with a commitment of $1 billion specifically allocated for rural areas, like those in Senator Caballero’s district.

For years, Senator Caballero has argued that internet access and affordability be reclassified as an essential service as vital as water or energy. The COVID pandemic validated her view that internet access is not for entertainment alone, but an essential component to the 21 st Century way of life.

“It is incredibly unfortunate that it took a global pandemic to show that we cannot wait any longer to secure high-speed internet,” said Senator Anna Caballero. “Last year people got up, turned on their water to brush their teeth, turned on some electricity to brew a pot of coffee, and then turned on their broadband to get to work, school, make a doctor’s appointment, or sell or buy a product. For too many Californians, this routine became frustrating and for some- impossible. I believe that ALL Californians will do better when ALL are connected to real high-speed internet, and with this historic investment, we are on our way to making that a reality.”

The legislation includes:

$3.25 billion to build, operate and maintain an open access, state-owned middle mile network – high-capacity fiber lines that carry large amounts of data at higher speeds over longer distances between local networks.

$2 billion to set up last-mile broadband connections that will connect homes and businesses with local networks. The legislation expedites project deployment and enables Tribes and local governments to access this funding.

$750 million for a loan loss reserve fund to bolster the ability of local governments and nonprofits to secure financing for broadband infrastructure.

Creation of a broadband czar position at the California Department of Technology, and a broadband advisory committee with representatives from across state government and members appointed by the Legislature.

For the full text of the bill, visit: http://leginfo.legislature.ca.gov

For interviews or inquiries, please contact Elisa Rivera at (209) 726-5495

Senator Anna M. Caballero represents the 12 th Senate District, composed of the Salinas Valley, Merced and San Benito Counties, and portions of Fresno, Madera and Stanislaus Counties.

Office Information

Capitol

Office

1021 O Street, Suite 7620

Sacramento, CA 95814

Phone: (916) 651-4014

Fresno

District Office

2550 Mariposa Mall, Suite 2016

Fresno, CA 93721

Phone: (559) 264-3070

Merced

510 West Main Street, Suite E

Merced, CA 95340

Phone: (209) 726-5495

California State Senate | Democratic Caucus © | Privacy Policy | Accessibility Statement

Senator Anna M. Caballero Joins Governor Newsom and Colleagues to Sign Historic  Legislation to Invest $6 Billion to Expand Broadband Infrastructure and Help to Bridge the Digital Divide