For Immediate Release

Contact: Elisa Rivera

(559) 264-3070 Elisa.Rivera@sen.ca.gov

Senator Anna M. Caballero Delivers $1 Million for the Rural Community of Livingston in Merced County

Funds will improve the delivery of clean water to the community and benefit the residents of the City of Livingston

SACRAMENTO: Senator Anna M. Caballero (D-Merced) successfully secured $1 Million to support the construction of a new centralized water treatment plant and storage tank for the City of Livingston. The City of Livingston currently has limited resources and a limited tax base to use to generate funds. The city communicated with Senator Caballero its need to fund the project’s design and environmental clearance, permitting, and construction costs.

Construction of the proposed project improvements will help to bring the city’s water system into compliance with water quality requirements. City leadership has worked to improve the quality of water provided to its residents through a variety of treatment and capacity increasing projects. This project is a demonstration of that philosophy.

“I understand that small, rural communities need resources and investment and funding is not easy to come by. This is why I have prioritized close communication with leaders and councilmembers across my district in order to identify priorities and find solutions. These funds are a great example of what we can accomplish when we all work together.” –Senator Anna Caballero, Senate District 14

“ I am happy for the city of Livingston and thank Senator Caballero for her work and support. The Central Valley has so many issues with water and water quality so this project is critical and will help us provide good, clean water to our residents. ” –Merced County Supervisor, District 1, Rodrigo Espinoza

“ Providing clean, reliable, and safe drinking water for the Livingston community is one of the top priorities for the City of Livingston. On behalf of the entire City of Livingston, the City Council and myself, we thank Senator Anna Caballero’s efforts in prioritizing clean drinking water for the region. Livingston and the entire Central Valley region are fortunate to have Senator Caballero in Sacramento advocating for the needs of our residents.” –Mayor of Livingston, Jose Moran

The Senator’s itinerary is as follows:

Livingston: Friday, October 27, 2023 at 11 AM

Who:

Senator Anna Caballero

Mayor, Jose Moran

Merced County Supervisor, Rodrigo Espinoza

Interim City Manager, Christopher Lopez

Location:

Arakelian Park

915 J. Street

Livingston CA, 95334

(Parking at Latour Way and Montelena Avenue)

What:

Check Presentation to the City of Livingston for $1 Million to support the construction of a new centralized water treatment plant and storage tank.

For interviews or inquiries, please contact Elisa Rivera at (559) 264-3070

Senator Anna M. Caballero represents the 14 th Senate District, composed of majority portions of Merced, Fresno and Madera Counties.

* Senator Anna M. Caballero serves as the Interim Representative for the Salinas Valley and San Benito County until 2024 when a newly elected Senator will assume the district

Office Information

Capitol

Office

1021 O Street, Suite 7620

Sacramento, CA 95814

Phone: (916) 651-4014

Fresno

District Office

2550 Mariposa Mall, Suite 2016

Fresno, CA 93721

Phone: (559) 264-3070

Merced

510 West Main Street, Suite E

Merced, CA 95340

Phone: (209) 726-5495

California State Senate | Democratic Caucus © | Privacy Policy | Accessibility Statement