WHITTIER, CA – As part of Senator Bob Archuleta’s (D-Pico Rivera) ongoing commitment to science, technology, engineering, and math (STEM) curriculum in public schools and technology empowerment through access to affordable broadband internet service and computers, Archuleta and local partners distributed Chromebook laptops to returning students at Richard L. Graves Middle School in Whittier on Thursday, August 12, 2021.

“It is imperative that students be empowered with the resources needed to interact with and learn from their science, technology, engineering and math (STEM) education curriculum in order to prepare them for the opportunities of the future. I have supported increasing access to affordable broadband internet service and laptop distribution efforts to students wherever possible because these resources are the means by which students interact with their school’s curriculum while on campus, or at home, as part of advancing their education” remarked Archuleta.

The Senator and his collaborative partners at the California Emerging Technology Fund (CETF) and State Senator Emeritus Martha Escutia previously collaborated in June 2021 to distribute laptops to four school districts, and have thus far distributed over 2,500 laptops. Each Chromebook distributed also came with discounted or subsidized internet service from Frontier Communications to ensure internet access for each laptop recipient.

Senator Bob Archuleta represents the 32nd Senate District, which includes portions of Los Angeles County and Orange County. He is Chair of the Senate Committee on Military and Veterans Affairs, Chair of the Select Committee on Hydrogen Energy, and member of the Senate Select Committee on California, Armenia and Artsakh Mutual Trade, Art and Cultural Exchange.

###

Office Information

Capitol Office

1021 O Street, Suite 6620

Sacramento, CA 95814

Phone: (916) 651-4030

District Office

12501 Imperial Hwy. Ste. 110

Norwalk, CA 90650

Phone: (562) 406-1001

California State Senate | Democratic Caucus © 2025 | Privacy Policy | Accessibility Statement