Montebello, CA – Senator Bob Archuleta (D-Pico Rivera) joined veterans, local elected officials and members of the community on Saturday, November 16, to walk in the 22 Ruck March for Veterans to help bring awareness to the mental health issues facing veterans and the critical need for support services.

The 31-mile walk was founded by Marine Veteran Gus Arenas in memory of his friend and fellow veteran who died by suicide. The number 22 is symbolic of the veteran suicides when Arenas originally launched the march.

“It is our duty to not only honor their service but to ensure they have access to the mental health support they need,” said Senator Archuleta, who is an Army veteran. “I thank Gus Arenas for his incredible leadership in founding the 22 March. His dedication in bringing awareness to the mental health crisis affecting our heroes is truly inspiring.”

The march started at midnight in Chino and ended near noon at Rio’s Pizza in Montebello. Participants stopped at the Whittier Veteran Peace Memorial for a brief prayer service.

Participants walked the entire march or portions of the route. Arenas, a group of fellow veterans, Pico Rivera Councilmember Erik Lutz and Senator Archuleta’s Communications Director Fred Zermeno, completed the entire march. As the group traveled into Whittier, they were joined by Senator Archuleta, Whittier Mayor Joe Vinatieri, Pico Rivera Mayor Andrew Lara and Councilmember Monica Sanchez and Montebello Mayor Pro Tem Sal Melendez and Councilmembers Georgina Tamayo and David Torres.

The participants ended the march at Rio’s Pizza, where they were treated to free food and drinks.

Senator Bob Archuleta currently represents the 30th Senate District, which includes portions of Los Angeles County and Orange County. He is the Chair of the Senate Committee on Military and Veterans Affairs, the Chair of the Senate Select Committee on Hydrogen Energy, and a member of the Business, Professions and Economic Development Committee, Governmental Organization Committee, Transportation Committee, as well as the Joint Legislative Committee on Emergency Management. Website of Senator Bob Archuleta: https://sd30.senate.ca.gov/

###

Office Information

Capitol Office

1021 O Street, Suite 6620

Sacramento, CA 95814

Phone: (916) 651-4030

District Office

12501 Imperial Hwy. Ste. 110

Norwalk, CA 90650

Phone: (562) 406-1001

California State Senate | Democratic Caucus © 2025 | Privacy Policy | Accessibility Statement