For Immediate Release

Contact: Elisa Rivera

(559) 264-3070 Elisa.Rivera@sen.ca.gov

Senator Anna M. Caballero Delivers for Rural and County Unincorporated Communities in Fresno County

Funds secured through the state budget and earmarked for high-priority projects for each community to improve quality of life for residents

SACRAMENTO: Senator Anna M. Caballero (D-Merced) announced today that the rural communities of Parlier and Reedley and the unincorporated communities of Cantua Creek and El Porvenir would receive funds secured through this year’s state budget. Senator Caballero will spend two days next week visiting each city to present a ceremonial check and tour each site.

Project Overview:

Reedley:

$350,000 to improve lighting for the City’s Sports Field Complex. New lights will increase usability and maximize community benefit year-round.

$250,000 to build EV charging station infrastructure at City facilities. The City of Reedley is in need of (20) level-2 chargers for the Police Department, six (6) at the community center and ten (10) at the Corporation Yard.

$150,000 for transitional housing facility improvements. The City of Reedley has an 18-person transitional housing facility that serves displaced families. Funds secured will help to make energy efficiency upgrades to save on high-energy costs, freeing up money for direct services to vulnerable families.

Parlier:

$1 Million for the City of Parlier's Indoor/Outdoor Regional Sports Park. The City is in need of an indoor facility due to harsh summer weather, which makes it difficult and dangerous for residents to engage in active recreation and sports outdoors.

Cantua Creek and El Porvenir:

$2 Million for the improvement of streets, sidewalks and drainage facilities in the rural, communities of Cantua Creek and El Porvenir. Street repairs, curb ramps and drainage facilities will be installed, and sidewalks leading to Cantua Creek Elementary will be constructed. The project will address flooding risks, and improve safety and accessibility.

Total: $3,750,000

“I understand that small, rural communities and county unincorporated areas in particular, need resources and investment. It is important for me to work closely with communities to identify priorities and work to get shovel-ready projects funded through the state budget. The funds secured for Fresno County are an example of what we can accomplish when we all work together to get things done.” –Senator Anna Caballero, Senate District 14

“Reedley is grateful to Senator Caballero for her tireless efforts to secure State funding for three critical City projects.  With these funds, the City will be able to move forward with the next phase of the Sports Park, repair facilities at the FAITH House which serves our families in need in times of emergency, and prepare the city for future sustainability efforts as California requires cities to transition to electric fleets over the coming years. “–Nicole Zieba, Reedley City Manager

“We are very excited to have the opportunity to move forward with our indoor sports park.  Thank you Senator Anna Caballero, for all your efforts to help fund this sports facility. We have been working on this for several years. The children of Parlier will now have a place they can go, and enjoy their time.” –Alma Beltran, Mayor of Parlier, CA

“The funding secured by Senator Caballero will help the County of Fresno get started on a series of projects for Cantua Creek and El Porvenir,” said Fresno County Supervisor Brian Pacheco. “We are listening to the residents and trying to work from a list of priorities that come from conversations with the community. We thank Senator Caballero and look forward to completing these projects and more in the future.”

The Senator’s itinerary is as follows:

1. Reedley, CA: Monday November 13, 2023 at 2:00 PM

Who:

Senator Anna Caballero

Mayor Anita Betancourt

City Manager Nicole Zieba

Location:

Reedley Sports Park Complex

20349 E Dinuba Ave.

Reedley, CA 93654

What:

Senator Caballero will present the City of Reedley with three (3) ceremonial checks for the City’s Sports Complex, EV Charging Station Infrastructure and Transitional Housing Facility Improvements.

2. Parlier CA, CA Monday November 13, 2023 at 3:15 PM

Mayor Alma Beltran and City Council Members

City Engineer, Javier Andrarde

Parlier Unified School District Superintendent, Dr. Rafael Iniguez

Proposed Site for Indoor/Outdoor Sports Complex

Corner of Academy and South Ave.

Ceremonial check presentation for the City of Parlier's Indoor/Outdoor Regional Sports Park.

3. Tuesday November 14, 2023 1:00 PM

Supervisor Brian Pacheco

Golden Plains Board Member Leticia Fernandez

29595 West Latta Ave.

Cantua Creek, CA 93608

What :

Ceremonial check presentation for the improvement of streets, sidewalks and drainage facilities.

For interviews or inquiries, please contact Elisa Rivera at (559) 264-3070

Senator Anna M. Caballero represents the 14 th Senate District, composed of majority portions of Merced, Fresno and Madera Counties.

* Senator Anna M. Caballero serves as the Interim Representative for the Salinas Valley and San Benito County until 2024 when a newly elected Senator will assume the district

Office Information

Capitol

Office

1021 O Street, Suite 7620

Sacramento, CA 95814

Phone: (916) 651-4014

Fresno

District Office

2550 Mariposa Mall, Suite 2016

Fresno, CA 93721

Phone: (559) 264-3070

Merced

510 West Main Street, Suite E

Merced, CA 95340

Phone: (209) 726-5495

California State Senate | Democratic Caucus © | Privacy Policy | Accessibility Statement