Senator Dave Cortese (D-Silicon Valley) made the following statement during today’s Senate Budget and Fiscal Review Committee about the immediate action detailed in the 2021-22 State Budget that the Governor is proposing the Legislature adopt within the next few weeks:

“The investments we prioritize in our State budget over the upcoming few weeks will mean everything to California businesses and families hardest hit by this crisis. With a commitment to building a more equitable and resilient California as we overcome this pandemic, the immediate action in Governor Newsom’s proposed 2021-22 State Budget will provide critical aid to our Californians that are struggling, including investments in our school districts, our small businesses, and our working families that need it so urgently. This much needed immediate relief includes an additional $575 million towards the California Small Business COVID-19 Relief Grant program, bringing the total available funds for small businesses to more than $1 billion, the distribution of $2.4 billion in rapid cash payments to individuals and working families with the greatest need, fee waivers to individuals and businesses totaling $70.6 million, and an extension of the current statewide eviction protections. As we are seeing projections of shortfalls between landlords and tenants that are going unresolved, the state needs to prioritize landlord and tenant mediation programs, including legal aid services, to help resolve tenant-landlord disputes. As we proceed through this budget process, we must consider whether federal stimulus dollars may be appropriate for these purposes. In my role on the Senate Budget Committee, I will continue to prioritize economic recovery efforts to provide relief to those Californian’s who need it the most and ensure that, even during a time of crisis, the state is taking steps to advance our values of economic inclusion.”

“The investments we prioritize in our State budget over the upcoming few weeks will mean everything to California businesses and families hardest hit by this crisis.

With a commitment to building a more equitable and resilient California as we overcome this pandemic, the immediate action in Governor Newsom’s proposed 2021-22 State Budget will provide critical aid to our Californians that are struggling, including investments in our school districts, our small businesses, and our working families that need it so urgently.

This much needed immediate relief includes an additional $575 million towards the California Small Business COVID-19 Relief Grant program, bringing the total available funds for small businesses to more than $1 billion, the distribution of $2.4 billion in rapid cash payments to individuals and working families with the greatest need, fee waivers to individuals and businesses totaling $70.6 million, and an extension of the current statewide eviction protections.

As we are seeing projections of shortfalls between landlords and tenants that are going unresolved, the state needs to prioritize landlord and tenant mediation programs, including legal aid services, to help resolve tenant-landlord disputes. As we proceed through this budget process, we must consider whether federal stimulus dollars may be appropriate for these purposes.

In my role on the Senate Budget Committee, I will continue to prioritize economic recovery efforts to provide relief to those Californian’s who need it the most and ensure that, even during a time of crisis, the state is taking steps to advance our values of economic inclusion.”

For more information, contact Tara Sreekrishnan, Office of Senator Dave Cortese, at 408 480 7833 or tara.sreekrishnan@sen.ca.gov .

Office Information

Capitol Office

1021 O Street Suite 7520 Sacramento, CA 95814

Phone: (916) 651-4015 Fax: (916) 651-4915

San Jose Office

1155 Meridian Avenue Suite 100 San Jose, CA 95125

Phone: (408) 723-4154 Fax: (408) 723-4159

California State Senate | Democratic Caucus © 2025 | Privacy Policy | Accessibility Statement

Senator Cortese’s Statement on State’s Proposed Immediate Budget Action