FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE

EAST PALO ALTO – State Senator Josh Becker announced his support today for requiring teachers and school staff to be fully vaccinated before returning to school or be tested regularly.

With COVID cases increasing as a result of the highly contagious Delta variant, the Peninsula Democrat said he is deeply concerned about unvaccinated students being exposed to the virus in the classroom. He also said employers must play an active role in ending the pandemic.

“We are in the middle of a crisis that can be ended within weeks if people simply get vaccinated,” said Senator Becker. “We are seeing COVID cases rise, and we must do everything we can to ensure lives are not lost simply because some in our community disagree with the science. Governor Newsom led the way by requiring state employees to be vaccinated or be tested at least once a week for COVID-19. Schools must follow suit. This would heighten protections for everyone.”

Since joining the Legislature, Senator Becker has been at the forefront of the fight for vaccination access. In February, he led the charge to bring increased access to vaccine to the East Palo Alto community. As the father of two public high school students, he has also been a strong proponent for a responsible return to in-person instruction.

Dr. Jeremiah Davis, Associate Medical Director of Pediatrics for the Ravenswood Family Health Network in East Palo Alto, where Senator Becker held a news conference today, said: “As pediatricians we see the drastic effects of the pandemic on the mental health of our patients who are struggling with isolation and effects of online schooling. We are partners with teachers in caring for the health and developmental needs of children. It is critical children have the opportunity to return to schools in person, in an environment that is as safe for them as possible. Those that can be vaccinated should, and those that can’t yet should be protected by the adults around them who can receive the vaccine.”

The Ravenswood Family Health Network has been a driving force in providing vaccinations to community residents and workers in addition to the families and individuals who are patients.

###

Media Contact: Leslie Guevarra, 415-298-3404, leslie.guevarra@sen.ca.gov

Office Information

Capitol Office

1021 O Street, Suite 6520

District Office

3525 Alameda de las Pulgas Menlo Park, CA 94025 Phone: (650) 233-2724

Social Media

California State Senate | Democratic Caucus © 2023 | Privacy Policy | Accessibility Statement

September 8, 2025

August 28, 2025

August 19, 2025

July 28, 2025

Senator Becker Calls on School Districts to Require Full Vaccination of Teachers, Staff

Statement from Bay Area Caucus on Preserving the $750 Million Bay Area Transit Bridge Loan

Creating Change – August 2025

Is California on Track for 2030?

Creating Change – July 2025