Sacramento, CA — Today, Senator Josh Becker (D-Menlo Park) announced the winner of the “There Ought to be a Law” (OBAL) competition for 2025. This year’s winner is Aisha Baro, Executive Director, Life Science Cares Bay Area, and her winning bill idea has been introduced as SB 338.

This bill will bring critical healthcare services directly to farmworkers in rural communities through a new mobile health pilot program. It builds on the successful Farmworkers Equity Bus pilot program launched in 2022 by providing virtual medical consultations, mental health services, and educational resources to improve health outcomes in underserved communities. This program serves approximately 120 people per week by rotating among farms in the afternoons and evenings when workers are most available. The availability of advanced technology and dedicated staff for the program has been a game-changer in reaching vulnerable populations.

SB 338 would establish the Mobile Health for Rural Communities Pilot Program administered by the Department of Health Care Services (DHCS). The program will launch in two rural counties, selected based on farmworker population and health care access needs. By deploying mobile health units equipped with virtual consultation capabilities, the program will provide:

Medical and preventative care.

Mental health services.

Health education and wellness resources.

The outcomes of the pilot will be monitored and reported to the Legislature by January 1, 2027, helping to inform future efforts to expand healthcare access in rural California.

"Farmworkers are the backbone of California’s agricultural economy, yet too many struggle to access even the most basic health care," said Senator Josh Becker . "This bill brings services directly to the people who need them most—eliminating long travel times and ensuring they can receive medical attention without sacrificing work.”

“I was so proud to be able to help with the first Farmworker Express bus,” said Aisha Baro . Executive Director, Life Science Cares Bay Area . “I was so inspired when I saw the results in my home community of half moon bay. That’s when I thought we should expand this program statewide to help rural communities. I’m excited that my organization, Life Science Cares, wants to keep supporting this, and we can work with California Life Sciences.”

"California Life Sciences is proud to co-sponsor SB 338, and we are excited about this approach to bring health access directly to the uninsured and advance patient access for all communities in California," said Mike Guerra, President and CEO, California Life Sciences . “This legislation advances our commitment to health equity by piloting health equity express buses designed to serve our farmworkers with essential resources where they work, which reflects the forward-thinking spirit of California's biotech industry."

"The ALAS Equity Express is championing new ways of lifting up the health and wellness of our farmworker community. Getting restorative resources of mental health, wellness, education, the arts, advocacy and accompaniment out in the fields is a necessary model of health and well-being for our farmworker communities. The creation and development of the Equity Express brought together a community to dream and innovate critical care that transforms how resources and services are creatively transported.  The Equity Express is packed with love, care, dignity, community, culture and joy, ready to lead the vision for farmworker health and wellness in 2025”, said Belinda Hernandez Arriaga, Executive Director and Founder of Alas .

Nearly half of all farmworkers in the U.S. live in California. Many work long hours at low wages under harsh conditions and in remote locations, creating significant obstacles in accessing medical care that leads many to delay or forgo necessary care. This contributes to higher rates of preventable conditions like high blood pressure, diabetes, and respiratory illnesses.

The OBAL competition first began under former Senator Joe Simitian, and since then, hundreds of constituents have participated and have directly the public policies that govern our state.

SB 338 is sponsored by California Life Sciences , Ayudando Latinos A Soñar (ALAS) , and Life Science Cares Bay Area , and is supported by the Leadership Council San Mateo County .

Office Information

Capitol Office

1021 O Street, Suite 6520 Sacramento, CA 95814 Phone: (916) 651-4013 Fax: (916) 651-4913

District Office

3525 Alameda de las Pulgas Menlo Park, CA 94025 Phone: (650) 233-2724

Social Media

California State Senate | Democratic Caucus © 2023 | Privacy Policy | Accessibility Statement

September 8, 2025

August 28, 2025

August 19, 2025

July 28, 2025

Senator Becker Announces OBAL Winner, Introduces Legislation to Expand Healthcare Access for Farmworkers in Rural California

Statement from Bay Area Caucus on Preserving the $750 Million Bay Area Transit Bridge Loan

Creating Change – August 2025

Is California on Track for 2030?

Creating Change – July 2025