SACRAMENTO – Senator María Elena Durazo (D–Los Angeles) issued the following statement after the California State Senate passed Senate Joint Resolution 9 (SJR 9) in July with a 29-6 party-line vote, and the California State Assembly passed the resolution today with a 59-11 party-line vote:

"Today marks a pivotal moment in California's unwavering commitment to protecting immigrant families and workers. The Assembly's passage of SJR 9 sends a clear, unified message that California will not stand idly by while federal immigration raids terrorize our communities. I am grateful to Assembly Majority Whip Mark González for his powerful presentation of this resolution and to all Assembly members who stood with us today. As Assemblymember González stated on the floor: 'SJR 9 is our call to justice.' He continued, 'This President's racist agenda to target people who look like me cannot and will not stand. We will not remain silent while entire communities are terrorized, sealed off by armored trucks and patrolled by agents with rifles.' The passage of SJR 9 coincides with today's federal court ruling that declared the Trump administration's deployment of National Guard and Marines in Los Angeles illegal under the Posse Comitatus Act. This ruling validates what we have been saying all along - the militarization of immigration enforcement is not only morally wrong but legally unjustifiable. I call on the Trump Administration to immediately end these destructive raids that are tearing families apart and terrorizing entire communities. California will continue to fight for the rights and dignity of all residents, regardless of immigration status. We will expand legal services, strengthen emergency response resources, and ensure that every family in our state can live without fear. Finally, I am very proud and deeply grateful to our cosponsors including the California Immigrant Policy Center, the Central American Resource Center (CARECEN-LA), and the Coalition for Humane Immigrant Rights (CHIRLA) for their tireless work in organizing over 100 organizations in support of this important resolution.”

"Today marks a pivotal moment in California's unwavering commitment to protecting immigrant families and workers. The Assembly's passage of SJR 9 sends a clear, unified message that California will not stand idly by while federal immigration raids terrorize our communities.

I am grateful to Assembly Majority Whip Mark González for his powerful presentation of this resolution and to all Assembly members who stood with us today. As Assemblymember González stated on the floor: 'SJR 9 is our call to justice.' He continued, 'This President's racist agenda to target people who look like me cannot and will not stand. We will not remain silent while entire communities are terrorized, sealed off by armored trucks and patrolled by agents with rifles.'

The passage of SJR 9 coincides with today's federal court ruling that declared the Trump administration's deployment of National Guard and Marines in Los Angeles illegal under the Posse Comitatus Act. This ruling validates what we have been saying all along - the militarization of immigration enforcement is not only morally wrong but legally unjustifiable.

I call on the Trump Administration to immediately end these destructive raids that are tearing families apart and terrorizing entire communities.

California will continue to fight for the rights and dignity of all residents, regardless of immigration status. We will expand legal services, strengthen emergency response resources, and ensure that every family in our state can live without fear.

Finally, I am very proud and deeply grateful to our cosponsors including the California Immigrant Policy Center, the Central American Resource Center (CARECEN-LA), and the Coalition for Humane Immigrant Rights (CHIRLA) for their tireless work in organizing over 100 organizations in support of this important resolution.”

###

Senator María Elena Durazo represents the 26th Senate District, which includes a diverse array of Los Angeles neighborhoods, including Boyle Heights, El Sereno, Highland Park, Eagle Rock, Glassell Park, Mt. Washington, Cypress Park, Lincoln Heights, Atwater Village, Elysian Valley, Arlington Heights, Echo Park, Silver Lake, Los Feliz, East Hollywood, Little Armenia, Thai Town, Larchmont, Koreatown, Pico-Union, Westlake-MacArthur Park, Historic Filipinotown, Chinatown, Little Tokyo, the Arts District, Civic Center, City Terrace, East Los Angeles, and the City of Vernon.

Office Information

Capitol Office

1021 O Street, Suite 7530

Sacramento, CA 95814

Phone: (916) 651-4026

Los Angeles

1808 W. Sunset Blvd.

Los Angeles, CA 90026

Phone: (213) 483-9300

California State Senate | Democratic Caucus © | Privacy Policy | Accessibility Statement