DIAMOND BAR, CA – Senator Bob Archuleta (D-Pico Rivera), in honor of Women’s History Month, has selected Dr. Zoila Escobar, the president of the AltaMed Foundation and executive vice president and chief administrative officer of AltaMed Health Services, as the 2024 Woman of the Year in Senate District 30. She was selected from a list of candidates who either live or work in the district.

“Zoila’s work on elevating the care of all patients, and especially those in underserved communities, is commendable,” Senator Archuleta said. “I am pleased to count her as a leader in the district, and I am impressed by her willingness to mentor and support the next generation of women as they seek to make their marks in the medical and other fields.”

Escobar, of La Habra Heights, is dedicated to leveling disparities in health care by combining her own personal insight into the Latino experience with comprehensive care.

For more than 40 years, she has played an instrumental role in community health leadership, spearheading everything from grassroots initiatives to leading major policy changes at national institutions.

At AltaMed, Escobar shapes nearly every dimension of the AltaMed experience, ranging from where people get care, to innovative programs and services for patients, to ensuring that everyone whom AltaMed serves receives patient-centered care in a way that honors their cultural preferences.

A prolific fundraiser, she has consistently raised 40 to 46 million dollars annually for AltaMed. Escobar currently oversees its development and fundraising departments, and her fund development experience dates back to 1984 at the American Cancer Society (ACS), as Director of Development for Special Populations.

While at ACS, Escobar also helped develop national policy in the area of uterine and breast cancer screening, smoking cessation, and HIV/AIDS for Spanish-speaking populations.

She has a Master’s Degree and a Doctorate from the University of La Verne, where her research focused on barriers to Latino students entering medical school.

Senator Bob Archuleta currently represents the 30th Senate District, which includes portions of Los Angeles County and Orange County. He is the Chair of the Senate Committee on Military and Veterans Affairs, and a member of the Business, Professions and Economic Development Committee, Government Organization Committee, Transportation Committee, as well as the Joint Legislative Committee on Emergency Management. Website of Senator Bob Archuleta : https://sd30.senate.ca.gov/

###

Office Information

Capitol Office

1021 O Street, Suite 6620

Sacramento, CA 95814

Phone: (916) 651-4030

District Office

12501 Imperial Hwy. Ste. 110

Norwalk, CA 90650

Phone: (562) 406-1001

California State Senate | Democratic Caucus © 2025 | Privacy Policy | Accessibility Statement