For Immediate Release

Contact: Elisa Rivera

(209) 726-5495 Elisa.Rivera@sen.ca.gov

Senator Anna M. Caballero Announces Legislation to Create Associate Degrees in Blockchain Technologies

Sacramento- Senator Anna M. Caballero (D-Merced) announced the introduction of SB 711 – Blockchain Education Workgroup. SB 711, through the California Community College Chancellor’s Office (CCCCO), creates a framework for an Associate Degree in Blockchain Technologies to promote cutting-edge, high quality, and highly sought after courses and curriculum. Due to the lack of skilled teaching talent or official blockchain coursework, it is hard for interested individuals to learn the skills and pursue a career in this nascent sector. Because of this gap, students are self-organizing in unofficial clubs to learn blockchain skills with their peers but lack a standardized, high-quality curriculum. Official blockchain coursework may encompass a wide range of subjects, including programing, coding, finance, and blockchain services at the local, county, and state levels. Additionally, a requirement that blockchain curriculum contain an ethics course can reduce the number of bad actors and help foster ethical behavior within the industry.

“Blockchain technology can significantly help historically disadvantaged communities by connecting them with high-paying jobs. Average entry-level jobs in the blockchain sector, which pay on average $117,000, are hard to access because of the skillset required and are out of reach for most low-income rural communities of color. By providing economic opportunities in historically disadvantaged communities, we can diversify the local economies, expand the tax base, improve constituent services, and help communities of color advance within the tech sector.” –Senator Anna Caballero

“SB 711 is a massive step forward for Blockchain education here in California”, said Digital Currency Traders Alliance Board Member Dr. Kerby Lynch. “By exposing students to opportunities in this high-skill, high-growth, and high-wage sector and providing Blockchain companies with a home-grown, reliable source of talent, we can reimagine local economies. By ensuring that all Californians have an opportunity to utilize Blockchain technologies for community development, we are pushing social, economic, and educational equity for all.” – Digital Currency Traders Alliance

For interviews or inquiries, please contact Elisa Rivera at (209) 726-5495

Senator Anna M. Caballero represents the 14 th Senate District, composed of majority portions of Merced, Fresno and Madera Counties.

* Senator Anna M. Caballero serves as the Interim Representative for the Salinas Valley and San Benito County until 2024 when a newly elected Senator will assume the district

Office Information

Capitol

Office

1021 O Street, Suite 7620

Sacramento, CA 95814

Phone: (916) 651-4014

Fresno

District Office

2550 Mariposa Mall, Suite 2016

Fresno, CA 93721

Phone: (559) 264-3070

Merced

510 West Main Street, Suite E

Merced, CA 95340

Phone: (209) 726-5495

California State Senate | Democratic Caucus © | Privacy Policy | Accessibility Statement