For Immediate Release

Contact: Elisa Rivera

Elisa.Rivera@sen.ca.gov (559) 264-3070

Senator Anna M. Caballero Announces Legislation to Streamline the Regulatory Permitting Process for Water Supply and Flood Risk Reduction Projects

Sacramento: Senator Anna M. Caballero (D-Merced) announced Senate Bill 23– Water Permit Streamlining to simplify the regulatory permitting process for water supply and flood risk reduction projects without compromising environmental protection. SB 23 sets deadlines for processing applications for a multitude of projects, reduces duplicative planning efforts, broadens the use of existing streamlining tools, and provides permitting agencies with additional resources to meet the requirements of this bill.

Improving water supply reliability and ecosystem resiliency through the development of new infrastructure requires efforts to modernize regulatory schemes. SB 23 would provide comprehensive solutions to streamline projects meant for various hydrological events. This includes surface storage and groundwater recharge so we can capture more water during high flow events and help achieve groundwater sustainability.

“Billions of dollars have been invested in water infrastructure projects in recent years to handle the severe changes in climate. California must recognize that new challenges require comprehensive, long-term solutions that will meet the needs of our communities, economy, and environment through the 21st Century. SB 23 will help accelerate recycled water, desalination, and storm water capture projects and provide access to a drought-proof sustainable supply of high-quality water.” –Senator Anna Caballero

“Public water agencies across the state are investing in critical water infrastructure in order to meet the water needs of the communities they serve amid a rapidly changing climate. ACWA applauds Senator Caballero’s willingness to author SB 23. This timely bill will help improve and streamline the regulatory permitting process, while preserving established environmental protections, so these crucial infrastructure projects are built at the pace and scale needed to improve long-term water resilience .” – Dave Eggerton, Executive Director of the Association of California Water Agencies (ACWA)

For interviews or inquiries, please contact Elisa Rivera at (559) 264-3070

Senator Anna M. Caballero represents the 14 th Senate District, composed of majority portions of Merced, Fresno and Madera Counties.

* Senator Anna M. Caballero serves as the Interim Representative for the Salinas Valley and San Benito County until 2024 when a newly elected Senator will assume the district

Office Information

Capitol

Office

1021 O Street, Suite 7620

Sacramento, CA 95814

Phone: (916) 651-4014

Fresno

District Office

2550 Mariposa Mall, Suite 2016

Fresno, CA 93721

Phone: (559) 264-3070

Merced

510 West Main Street, Suite E

Merced, CA 95340

Phone: (209) 726-5495

California State Senate | Democratic Caucus © | Privacy Policy | Accessibility Statement