SACRAMENTO – The Senate Rules Committee, chaired by Senate President pro Tempore Mike McGuire (D-North Coast), has reappointed Ann Notthoff to the California Coastal Commission.

“Commissioner Notthoff has dedicated her life to protect California’s vast natural resources and she has been a devoted and hard-working member of the Commission,” Pro Tem McGuire said. “California’s coast is one of our most prized possessions – culturally, economically, and socially. It’s in good hands with Ann, who has proven to be a trusted leader.”

Ann Notthoff, of Carmel Valley, spent nearly four decades at the Natural Resources Defense Council, before retiring in 2020. She was a founding member of the California League for Coastal Protection and was initially appointed to the California Coastal Commission in March 2023. She was also a Senate Rules Committee appointee on the State Coastal Conservancy from 2005 until 2023.

“Serving on the California Coastal Commission has been an honor and I’m excited about the work we have in front of us,” Commissioner Ann Notthoff said. “I’m grateful that Pro Tem McGuire and the Senate Rules Committee have given me the opportunity to continue the important work of preserving our beautiful coast and growing coastal economic and housing opportunities for all.”

The California Coastal Commission was established by voter initiative in 1972 (Proposition 20) and later made permanent by the Legislature through adoption of the California Coastal Act of 1976. In partnership with coastal cities and counties, The Coastal Commission plans and regulates the use of land and water in the coastal zone.

Notthoff will serve a four-year term on the California Coastal Commission, ending on May 20, 2029.

En Español

###

Mike McGuire is President pro Tempore of the California Senate. He represents the North Coast of California, which stretches from the Golden Gate Bridge to the Oregon border, including Del Norte, Trinity, Humboldt, Lake, Mendocino, Sonoma, and Marin Counties. Website of Senate Leader McGuire: https://sd02.senate.ca.gov/

Office Information

1021 O Street, Suite 8518 Sacramento, CA 95814 Phone: (916) 651-4002

California State Senate | Democratic Caucus © | Privacy Policy | Accessibility Statement

Senate Leader McGuire and Senate Rules Committee Reappoint Ann Notthoff to California Coastal Commission