Senator Caballero and Assemblywoman Soria on California Approving $57 Million Loan for Madera Community Hospital

SACRAMENTO, CA — Senator Anna M. Caballero (D-Merced) and Assemblywoman Esmeralda Soria (D-Fresno) released the following statements following Governor Newsom’s approval of the $57 million loan to reopen Madera Community Hospital:

“I am pleased to learn that funds to reopen Madera hospital have been approved," said Senator Caballero . "I am thankful to the Governor and his office for their partnership and support. I remain cautiously optimistic that our work over the last two years will result in the successful reopening of the hospital. Madera and the surrounding communities are in desperate need of healthcare services and access. I look forward to the day when the hospital can open its doors to serve the public.”

“This is a good day for Madera and the Central Valley. Over a year has gone by since Madera Community Hospital shut its doors. This has been a long process, but we are finally seeing the fruits of our labor,” said Assemblywoman Soria . "Today’s news moves us closer to restoring essential healthcare services to our community. I am grateful to the Governor and his team for prioritizing state assistance to re-open Madera Community Hospital. I look forward to continuing to work alongside our state and local partners to ensure the residents of Madera regain access to life-saving and preventative healthcare. I continue to make this my priority and will remain committed to see those hospital doors open and ensure the Central Valley is not left behind.”

###

Senator Anna M. Caballero represents the 14th Senate District, composed of majority portions of Merced, Fresno and Madera Counties.

Assemblywoman Esmeralda Soria represents the 27th Assembly District which includes communities in Fresno, Madera, and Merced counties.

Office Information

Capitol

Office

1021 O Street, Suite 7620

Sacramento, CA 95814

Phone: (916) 651-4014

Fresno

District Office

2550 Mariposa Mall, Suite 2016

Fresno, CA 93721

Phone: (559) 264-3070

Merced

510 West Main Street, Suite E

Merced, CA 95340

Phone: (209) 726-5495

California State Senate | Democratic Caucus © | Privacy Policy | Accessibility Statement