Legislation by Senator Dave Cortese (D-San Jose) that would resolve major industry and labor issues tied to rest breaks and related compensation for flight attendants passed a key legislative committee hearing on Thursday. The conflict had remained gridlocked as airlines considered moving their major operations out of California. SB 41 reflects months of negotiations between commercial airlines and cabin crew labor representatives and has no opposition. The fast-track bill unanimously passed the Senate Labor, Public Employment and Retirement Committee on Thursday and heads to the Senate Judiciary Committee.

“SB 41 shows that business groups can come together with organized labor to solve thorny problems resulting in keeping good-paying jobs here in California that might otherwise leave the state. This negotiation resolves conflicts and provides flight attendants with a benefit that makes them whole and keeps airline workers and passengers safe,” said Senator Cortese, chair of the Senate Labor, Public Employment and Retirement Committee . “I applaud the commercial airlines, cabin crew labor representatives, and my colleagues for promoting compromise for the benefit of commercial aviation, its flight attendants, and the flying public.”

Background: Under California law, employees must be “off duty” during meal and rest breaks and able to leave the work premises. This is not possible for flight attendants on an aircraft. SB 41 provides a course correction by exempting California-based cabin crews from the meal and rest break law only if there is a Collective Bargaining Agreement that provides for breaks or appropriate compensation. The bill accommodates the unique work environment of commercial flight attendants by allowing flight attendants to negotiate meal and rest break benefits while providing their employers the ability to comply with California law. It’s the result of an agreement between Association of Flight Attendants-CWA, Transport Workers Union (TWU) and commercial airlines.

Office Information

Capitol Office

1021 O Street Suite 7520 Sacramento, CA 95814

Phone: (916) 651-4015 Fax: (916) 651-4915

San Jose Office

1155 Meridian Avenue Suite 100 San Jose, CA 95125

Phone: (408) 723-4154 Fax: (408) 723-4159

California State Senate | Democratic Caucus © 2025 | Privacy Policy | Accessibility Statement

Senator Cortese Bill Brokering Deal For Rest Breaks For Flight Attendants Clears First Committee