CERRITOS, CA – California State Senator Bob Archuleta (D-Pico Rivera), in conjunction with the California Association of Nonprofits, recognized the Community Family Guidance Center based in the city of Cerritos as the 32 nd Senate District’s 2022 nonprofit of the year.

“The Community Family Guidance Center has done outstanding work providing counseling services to children and families in need. They have developed strong community partnerships with local schools and agencies to promote healing for the entire family in response to traumatic mental health issues, averaging more than 33,000 therapy sessions each year.”

Established in 1976, the Community Family Guidance Center is a 501(c) (3) non-profit agency, providing counseling services in the Southeast area of Los Angeles County. With approximately 70 team members, they provide therapy that is culturally sensitive and bilingual as needed to help children dealing with traumatic mental health issues. To learn more about them, please visit https://www.cfgcenter.com/mission

"Our entire agency is extremely honored to be recognized for the hard work performed by our therapists. Many thanks to Senator Archuleta and Cal Nonprofit for selecting us as a nonprofit of the year,” remarked Bill Sinko, Executive Director of the Community Family Guidance Center.

“Senator Archuleta has been a true partner helping kids in our community heal through compassionate guidance," stated Victor Sanchez, Director of Community Relations for the Center.

California nonprofits have led on numerous social movements, ranging from the right to vote, to the beginnings of the environmental movement. From issue area specific movements, to associations organized around vocational and professional advocacy, California’s 80,000 nonprofits are key drivers for innovation, success and opportunity.

Senator Bob Archuleta represents the 32nd Senate District, which includes portions of Los Angeles County and Orange County. He is Chair of the Senate Committee on Military and Veterans Affairs, Chair of the Select Committee on Hydrogen Energy, and member of the Senate Select Committee on California, Armenia and Artsakh Mutual Trade, Art and Cultural Exchange.

###

Office Information

Capitol Office

1021 O Street, Suite 6620

Sacramento, CA 95814

Phone: (916) 651-4030

District Office

12501 Imperial Hwy. Ste. 110

Norwalk, CA 90650

Phone: (562) 406-1001

California State Senate | Democratic Caucus © 2025 | Privacy Policy | Accessibility Statement