SACRAMENTO – Earlier today, Senator Tom Umberg (D-Orange County) , and the California State Senate, announced that the United Across Borders Foundation has been honored as the 34 th Senate District 2025 Nonprofit of the Year. Since 2012, the United Across Borders Foundation (UABF) has served women, men, and families with a commitment to ending hunger and lack in communities locally in Orange County and abroad with love, respect, integrity, and compassion. UABF's mission is to ensure that no one ends their day in need or hungry, providing essential support to individuals and families facing challenges. Through grocery assistance, diapers, medical supplies, and various forms of support, UABF believes in the power of collaboration and strives to join forces with like-minded individuals and organizations making them a consistent leader in community services in Orange County. For the last ten years, legislators from across California have chosen a Nonprofit of the Year in their district. Traditionally, the Senate and Assembly invite legislators and honorees to a celebratory luncheon on California Nonprofits Day. A picture of Senator Umberg with Erika Robles of UABF and her son, Oscar, is attached. “The pandemic, more than anything, served to highlight the work that nonprofits do for our community. The services and resources provided by United Across Borders and other nonprofit organizations are awe-inspiring,” said Senator Thomas J. Umberg (D - Santa Ana ). “As we work through California’s current budget crisis and the systemic destruction of safety net programs by the federal government, UABF is, and will continue to be, a pivotal resource to Orange County families.” According to Causes Count, a 2019 report commissioned by CalNonprofits, the nonprofit sector is the fourth largest industry in the state, employing more than 1.2 million people. Each year, California nonprofits generate more than $273 billion in revenue and bring in $40 billion in revenue from outside of California. Nearly all of California’s 120 state legislators selected a Nonprofit of the Year for their districts. The nonprofits selected for this honor reflect the diversity of the state their work benefits. They address a wide range of issue areas and work in communities both urban and rural. The recognition as a Nonprofit of the Year brings much deserved attention to outstanding nonprofits whose work is often hiding in plain sight. The United Across Borders Foundation exemplifies the spirit of community and compassion, working tirelessly to bridge gaps and provide support to those in need. Through its local and global initiatives, UABF continues to make a meaningful difference in the lives of individuals and communities, embodying the values of love, respect, integrity, and compassion. ### Senator Thomas J. Umberg represents the 34th Senate District, which includes the cities of Anaheim, Buena Park, Fullerton, Garden Grove, La Habra, Long Beach, Orange, Placentia, Santa Ana, and East and South Whittier. Umberg is a retired U.S. Army Colonel, former federal prosecutor, and small businessman. He and his wife, Brigadier General Robin Umberg, USA (ret.), live in Orange County.

SACRAMENTO – Earlier today, Senator Tom Umberg (D-Orange County) , and the California State Senate, announced that the United Across Borders Foundation has been honored as the 34 th Senate District 2025 Nonprofit of the Year.

Since 2012, the United Across Borders Foundation (UABF) has served women, men, and families with a commitment to ending hunger and lack in communities locally in Orange County and abroad with love, respect, integrity, and compassion. UABF's mission is to ensure that no one ends their day in need or hungry, providing essential support to individuals and families facing challenges. Through grocery assistance, diapers, medical supplies, and various forms of support, UABF believes in the power of collaboration and strives to join forces with like-minded individuals and organizations making them a consistent leader in community services in Orange County.

For the last ten years, legislators from across California have chosen a Nonprofit of the Year in their district. Traditionally, the Senate and Assembly invite legislators and honorees to a celebratory luncheon on California Nonprofits Day. A picture of Senator Umberg with Erika Robles of UABF and her son, Oscar, is attached.

“The pandemic, more than anything, served to highlight the work that nonprofits do for our community. The services and resources provided by United Across Borders and other nonprofit organizations are awe-inspiring,” said Senator Thomas J. Umberg (D - Santa Ana ). “As we work through California’s current budget crisis and the systemic destruction of safety net programs by the federal government, UABF is, and will continue to be, a pivotal resource to Orange County families.”

According to Causes Count, a 2019 report commissioned by CalNonprofits, the nonprofit sector is the fourth largest industry in the state, employing more than 1.2 million people. Each year, California nonprofits generate more than $273 billion in revenue and bring in $40 billion in revenue from outside of California.

Nearly all of California’s 120 state legislators selected a Nonprofit of the Year for their districts. The nonprofits selected for this honor reflect the diversity of the state their work benefits. They address a wide range of issue areas and work in communities both urban and rural. The recognition as a Nonprofit of the Year brings much deserved attention to outstanding nonprofits whose work is often hiding in plain sight.

The United Across Borders Foundation exemplifies the spirit of community and compassion, working tirelessly to bridge gaps and provide support to those in need. Through its local and global initiatives, UABF continues to make a meaningful difference in the lives of individuals and communities, embodying the values of love, respect, integrity, and compassion.

###

Senator Thomas J. Umberg represents the 34th Senate District, which includes the cities of Anaheim, Buena Park, Fullerton, Garden Grove, La Habra, Long Beach, Orange, Placentia, Santa Ana, and East and South Whittier. Umberg is a retired U.S. Army Colonel, former federal prosecutor, and small businessman. He and his wife, Brigadier General Robin Umberg, USA (ret.), live in Orange County.

Office Information

Capitol Office

1021 O Street, Suite 7510 Sacramento, CA 95814

Phone: (916) 651-4034 Fax: (916) 651-4934

District Office

1000 E. Santa Ana Blvd., Ste. 220B Santa Ana, CA 92701

Phone: (714) 558-3785

California State Senate | Democratic Caucus © | Privacy Policy | Accessibility Statement

Senator Tom Umberg Honors United Across Borders  Foundation as 2025 Nonprofit of the Year