Diverse bill package authored to improve the lives of constituents in Senate District 14 and families throughout California

Sacramento- Senator Anna M. Caballero (D-Merced) announced the successful passage of her legislative package now signed into official law by Governor Gavin Newsom. Senator Caballero’s legislative proposals include strengthened protections for survivors of sexual assault and legislation that expands hydrogen production, setting the highest in the world production standards and that produces high-wage, green union jobs.

“We were faced with many difficulties this year. Our team rose to meet challenges and worked diligently to ensure that our legislative package address the most pressing needs of our time. I thank them for their work and dedication. I also wish to thank Governor Newsom for his support and reaffirm my commitment to continue to work on behalf of residents both in my district and across the Golden State.” -Senator Anna Caballero, Senate District 14

2024 Bill Package:

SB 632           Red Rock Canyon: Red Rock Canyon State Park is located between Bakersfield and the Mojave Desert and lacks direct trail access to nearby federal lands for Off Highway Vehicle recreation. SB 632 creates a pilot project to provide a unified trail system between the state and federal OHV riding areas while preserving traffic safety, improving natural and cultural resource protection and reducing OHV trespass on private lands.

SB 768           Vehicle Miles Traveled Study: Requires the Department of Housing and Community Development to study the impacts of vehicle miles traveled measures on housing developments in rural and suburban communities.

SB 1123        Small Lot Homeownership Production: Provides technical clean up to SB 684, enacted last year to create an administration pathway to build small housing units on infill parcels.

SB 1140        Enhanced Infrastructure Financing District (EIFD) and Climate Resiliency District (CRD) Streamlining: The current process to form an EIFD, or for a CRD to use tax-increment financing, is cumbersome and costly, taking up to a year to complete. This bill reforms EIFD and CRD law to streamline formation process and expand the types of projects these tools can finance.

SB 1303        Third Party Labor Law Verifiers on Public Works Contracts: Defines oversight on third party verifiers contracted by local governments to ensure compliance with state labor code. Specifically, the bill would require:

A meet and confer between the contractor and third party verifier prior to any hold on funds paid to the contractor for work performed;

establish a timeline for local governments on how long funds can be held until the contractor becomes verified that they are in compliance with state law; and

Establish a conflict of interest provision to prohibit a third party verifier from having a current contractual relationship with a contractor that is performing a public works contract concurrently.

SB 1386        Sexual Assault Evidence: Clarifies Rape Shield Laws barring the admission of the plaintiff’s history of sexual conduct (either consensual or non-consensual) as evidence to prove consent or an “absence of damages”.

SB 1420        Clean, Renewable Hydrogen: Advances California’s commitment to clean energy, climate action and good paying jobs. SB 1420 e nsures the highest environmental standards for hydrogen production while securing the largest public and private investment in America that will create high quality, clean energy jobs.

For interviews or inquiries, please contact: Elisa Rivera at 559-264-3070

Senator Anna M. Caballero represents the 14 th Senate District, composed of majority portions of Merced, Fresno and Madera Counties.

* Senator Anna M. Caballero serves as the Interim Representative for the Salinas Valley and San Benito County until 2024 when a newly elected Senator will assume the district

Office Information

Capitol

Office

1021 O Street, Suite 7620

Sacramento, CA 95814

Phone: (916) 651-4014

Fresno

District Office

2550 Mariposa Mall, Suite 2016

Fresno, CA 93721

Phone: (559) 264-3070

Merced

510 West Main Street, Suite E

Merced, CA 95340

Phone: (209) 726-5495

California State Senate | Democratic Caucus © | Privacy Policy | Accessibility Statement

Senator Anna M. Caballero’s 2024 Legislative Package Signed by Governor