(Sacramento, CA) – Senator Thomas J. Umberg, Chair of the Senate Judiciary Committee, and a former federal prosecutor and retired U.S. Army Colonel issued the following statement this evening in response to a ruling by a federal judge against President Trump’s use of the National Guard in Los Angeles:

“It’s been very clear from the jump that the National Guard was not necessary in Southern California.  This stunt was simply designed to create an unnecessary and dangerous confrontation – a reckless and disrespectful way to treat our men and women in uniform. I’m pleased that the court reached this same conclusion. I hope that our brave National Guard members can get back to their homes in time to celebrate Father’s Day with their loved ones.”

“It’s been very clear from the jump that the National Guard was not necessary in Southern California.  This stunt was simply designed to create an unnecessary and dangerous confrontation – a reckless and disrespectful way to treat our men and women in uniform.

I’m pleased that the court reached this same conclusion. I hope that our brave National Guard members can get back to their homes in time to celebrate Father’s Day with their loved ones.”

This ruling sides with the State of California’s argument that the president erred in how the guard was being activated in Los Angeles. The ruling, issued by District Judge Charles Breyer, requires President Trump to return control of the National Guard to California Governor Gavin Newsom by noon on Friday.  The ruling may still be appealed. This is a developing story.

###

Senator Thomas Umberg is the Chair of the Senate Judiciary Committee and represents the 34th Senate District, which includes the cities of Anaheim, Buena Park, Fullerton, Garden Grove, La Habra, Orange, Placentia, and Santa Ana in Orange County as well as South and East Whittier in Los Angeles County. Umberg is a retired U.S. Army Colonel and former federal prosecutor. He and his wife, Brigadier General Robin Umberg, USA (ret.), live in Orange County.

Office Information

Capitol Office

1021 O Street, Suite 7510 Sacramento, CA 95814

Phone: (916) 651-4034 Fax: (916) 651-4934

District Office

1000 E. Santa Ana Blvd., Ste. 220B Santa Ana, CA 92701

Phone: (714) 558-3785

California State Senate | Democratic Caucus © | Privacy Policy | Accessibility Statement

Senate Judiciary Chair Issues Statement Regarding National Guard Ruling