Senators Anna M. Caballero and Nancy Skinner Introduce The Access + Support for Abortion Patients (ASAP) Act Proposed bill would ensure abortion support organizations and providers have adequate funding to serve people seeking abortion related services in the state, amid growing restrictions in states throughout the nation.

SACRAMENTO: Senator Anna M. Caballero (D-Merced) and Senator Nancy Skinner (D-Berkeley) introduced SB 1142, which seeks to increase resources for individuals who can become pregnant who seek abortion services in California.

There persists a battle in the United States regarding a women’s right to an abortion, which has reached new heights in recent years. This year, the U.S. Supreme Court is set to review a direct challenge to the long-standing legal protections of abortion services under Roe v. Wade. Should the Court overturn Roe v. Wade, people in over half of the states in the country – over 36 million women and other people who may become pregnant - will lose access to abortion care. It is imperative to provide for and support funding for the logistical needs of patients seeking abortions, as resources have been, and will continue to be, stretched. “People who seek abortion and related reproductive care are in a vulnerable place, particularly because of the obstacles they face, such as transportation, lodging, wage support or sick leave, and childcare. For those outside of California who seek an abortion, these barriers increase exponentially. With the ongoing attack on the right to abortion in the greater United States, initiatives to increase protections in this area are needed now more than ever. I am proud to author SB 1142 to protect this important right to abortion services.” –Senator Anna M Caballero (D-Merced)

“The Supreme Court’s conservative majority seems poised to do the unthinkable and overturn nearly 50 years of settled law that would take away a woman’s constitutional right to the reproductive services she may need, including abortion. California won’t stand idly by and let that happen” –Senator Nancy Skinner (D-Berkeley)

"Logistical barriers to obtaining an abortion impact a majority of ACCESS REPRODUCTIVE JUSTICE's callers. Practical and Logistical support for our callers can look like travel, lodging, child care, doula support, and food. We are grateful that Senators Caballero and Skinner have introduced SB 1142, which will work to ensure that individuals can access the full range of abortion practical support in California. Reproductive health care is a human right that we all deserve to be able to fully access.” –Jessica Pinckney, Executive Director, ACCESS REPRODUCTIVE JUSTICE

"Barriers to abortion go beyond laws. Whether you are a resident of California or you are seeking care in California, barriers like travel costs, childcare, taking time off work, and other logistical concerns too often stand in the way of accessing abortion care. The ASAP Act is what we need to break down barriers. Planned Parenthood is proud to support SB 1142 because health center doors are open for any patient who needs services, and we want to ensure those patients are supported throughout the process and can easily access the information they need, when they need it." –Jodi Hicks, CEO/President, Planned Parenthood Affiliates of California

California has long been considered a Reproductive Freedom state, but more can be done to address barriers that still exist to abortion. SB 1142 attempts to bridge the gap in two ways- first, by increasing transparency and communication as to the current protections that surround abortion, where a person can seek legitimate abortion care, and information on health care and financial assistance resources; second, by establishing a grant program to provide much needed funds for abortion support organizations to go towards practical support services that help patients. This straightforward proposal seeks to stabilize resources for a growing need in our state, especially given the influx of patients who now need to seek care in California.

For interviews or inquiries, please contact Elisa Rivera at (209) 726-5495. Senator Anna M. Caballero represents the 12th Senate District, composed of Merced and San Benito Counties, Salinas Valley, and portions of Fresno, Madera and Stanislaus Counties. ###

Office Information

Capitol

Office

1021 O Street, Suite 7620

Sacramento, CA 95814

Phone: (916) 651-4014

Fresno

District Office

2550 Mariposa Mall, Suite 2016

Fresno, CA 93721

Phone: (559) 264-3070

Merced

510 West Main Street, Suite E

Merced, CA 95340

Phone: (209) 726-5495

California State Senate | Democratic Caucus © | Privacy Policy | Accessibility Statement

Senators Anna M. Caballero and Nancy Skinner Introduce  The Access + Support for Abortion Patients (ASAP) Act