SACRAMENTO, CA – Senator Bob Archuleta (D-Pico Rivera), Chair of the California State Senate Military and Veterans Affairs Committee, released the following statement following President Biden’s signing of the PACT Act, a federal legislative bill to expand health care benefits to Iraq and Afghanistan war veterans exposed to toxic burn pits during their combat tours:

“As Chair of the State Senate Military and Veterans Affairs Committee, I am pleased to finally see an expansion of health care benefits meant to assist the thousands of veterans who were exposed to harmful toxins during their tours of duty in Iraq and Afghanistan in the service of our nation’s security. I applaud President Biden for signing this bill into law, and thank Congressional House Committee on Veterans’ Affairs Chairman Mark Takano for introducing this much-needed bill. We know from the decades of harm caused by Agent Orange exposure during the Vietnam War, that not all wounds suffered by our servicemembers are visible. However, all wounds deserve mending.”

The bill expedites access to health care services, in addition to expanding benefits ranging from stipends for surviving spouses to children's tuition benefits to cover college expenses.

“President Biden's signature on this legislation honors the sacred obligations we owe to our nation’s veterans by ensuring they get the benefits and comprehensive health care they rightfully deserve.”

Senator Bob Archuleta represents the 32nd Senate District, which includes portions of Los Angeles County and Orange County. He is Chair of the Senate Committee on Military and Veterans Affairs, Chair of the Select Committee on Hydrogen Energy, and member of the Senate Select Committee on California, Armenia and Artsakh Mutual Trade, Art and Cultural Exchange. Website of Senator Bob Archuleta: https://sd32.senate.ca.gov/

###

Office Information

Capitol Office

1021 O Street, Suite 6620

Sacramento, CA 95814

Phone: (916) 651-4030

District Office

12501 Imperial Hwy. Ste. 110

Norwalk, CA 90650

Phone: (562) 406-1001

California State Senate | Democratic Caucus © 2025 | Privacy Policy | Accessibility Statement