Senator Anna M. Caballero Introduces Legislation to Strengthen, “Buy American” Policies for School Meal Purchases

SB1308 would support California farmers, workers and students by ensuring schools purchase American agriculture products for student meals

SACRAMENTO : Senator Anna M. Caballero (D-Merced) introduced SB1308 which would clarify and strengthen California’s Buy American policy by requiring all California public schools, colleges and universities to purchase agricultural products grown, packaged or processed domestically, unless the price of the foreign product is more than twenty-five percent lower than a domestic product. SB1308 would improve the quality and safety of public school, college and university meal and nutrition programs, protect California jobs, and support California’s agricultural industry.

In his first week in office, President Biden signed an Executive Order “Ensuring the Future is Made in All of America by All of America’s Workers,” to ensure that taxpayer dollars support American workers and businesses. Senator Caballero’s bill would put California at the forefront of implementing and strengthening President Biden’s order at the state level.

“SB1308 expresses the State Legislature’s support for Buy American requirements for all school food purchases. Additionally it calls on the 117th Congress to help the USDA meet its obligations under the President’s Executive Order, to maximize domestic procurement in the upcoming reauthorization of the Child Nutrition Act. SB1308 does not mandate that schools buy American products, nor does it dictate the kind of products that they must purchase. SB 1308 provides schools the flexibility to adjust menus and procurement to avoid increased costs and gives them a “safety valve” if there is no affordable domestic product available.” –Senator Anna M Caballero (D-Merced)

“California’s agricultural community achieves exceptional standards to ensure food safety, reduce water use, boost energy efficiency, carefully manage pesticide use, protect the health of workers, and provide the highest farm wages in the nation. SB 1308 supports California’s high standards by utilizing taxpayer dollars to purchase food products in compliance with these critical standards.” – California Canning Peach Association President & CEO Rich Hudgins

“The Teamsters have tens of thousands of members in food processing and in the dairy industry in California. Our members prepare and produce many of the products that stock grocery store shelves and are served in school cafeterias. Unionized food processing jobs provide good jobs and ensure products meet the highest quality and health and safety standards. SB 1308 fights back against foreign outsourcing and will protect jobs, communities, and the safety of the food our kids eat at school. We thank Senator Caballero for introducing this important Buy American, Bill.” –Peter Finn, Director, Teamsters Food Processing Division

SB 1308 has been referred to the Senate Agriculture committee and will be heard on March 24, 2022.

For interviews or inquiries, please contact Elisa Rivera at (209) 726-5495

Senator Anna M. Caballero represents the 12 th Senate District, composed of Merced and San Benito Counties, the Salinas Valley, and portions of Fresno, Madera and Stanislaus Counties.

###

Office Information

Capitol

Office

1021 O Street, Suite 7620

Sacramento, CA 95814

Phone: (916) 651-4014

Fresno

District Office

2550 Mariposa Mall, Suite 2016

Fresno, CA 93721

Phone: (559) 264-3070

Merced

510 West Main Street, Suite E

Merced, CA 95340

Phone: (209) 726-5495

California State Senate | Democratic Caucus © | Privacy Policy | Accessibility Statement

Senator Anna M. Caballero Introduces Legislation to Strengthen, “Buy American” Policies for School Meal Purchases.