Montebello, CA – After years of advocacy, Senator Bob Archuleta (D-Pico Rivera) proudly affirms the State Historical Resources Commission’s unanimous vote today to officially designate the Armenian Genocide Martyrs Monument located in the 30 th Senate District as a California State Historical Landmark.

With deep roots in the community from his tenure with the Montebello Police Department and his ongoing commitment as a Senator, Archuleta has long recognized the monument’s critical importance to the Armenian community in Montebello, where the Monument is located. For years, Archuleta has championed the cause to ensure that this historic site receives the honor it deserves.

“Having worked closely with the Armenian community over many years and participated in numerous Genocide Remembrance Day ceremonies, I celebrate with them on this momentous day,” Senator Archuleta said. “The Martyrs Monument is not only a celebration of a rich cultural history but also a solemn reminder of our duty to remember and act.”

Constructed as a modern, sculptural interpretation of traditional Armenian Church architecture, the Armenian Genocide Martyrs Monument holds the distinction of being the first major monument dedicated to the Armenian Genocide in the United States, as well as the first of its kind on public land. Its establishment, in 1968, was made possible through the dedication and efforts of the Armenian American community and has become a powerful symbol of pride and remembrance for the diaspora.

“Montebello stands in solidarity with Senator Bob Archuleta to take this meaningful step in recognizing the cultural and historical significance of the Armenian Genocide Martyrs Monument,” Montebello Mayor, Salvador Melendez said. The city’s Armenian American community made it possible to construct the Monument, which serves as a symbol of ethnic pride for the Armenian diaspora, particularly those living in Montebello and the surrounding region.”

The monument plays a vital role in community observances and events, commemorating fifty years of reflection on the Armenian Genocide and embodying the cultural revival that unified the Armenian diaspora in the 1960s. Senator Archuleta also noted that, in light of recent events – including the forced displacement of over 100,000 Armenians from Artsakh in 2023 – the need to preserve and honor this memorial has never been more urgent.

"The Armenian Genocide Martyrs Monument in Montebello being designated as a California State Historical Landmark is important not only to me; but, to Armenian Americans across California as it serves as a cultural landmark and a reminder of the importance of remembering the Armenian Genocide,” said Assembly member John Harabedian and Chair of the Armenian Legislative Caucus.

Montebello, located within the 30 th Senate District, is home to the oldest Armenian community in Los Angeles County, according to city officials. “Recognizing this monument as a California State Historical Landmark is a commitment to preserving a legacy that not only honors the past but also educates future generations about the enduring spirit of resilience and cultural identity,” Senator Archuleta said.

Senator Archuleta’s work over the years to make this designation a reality, underscores his steadfast dedication to honoring California’s diverse cultural heritage and ensuring that historic landmarks continue to inspire and educate communities statewide.

###

Senator Bob Archuleta currently represents the 30th Senate District, which includes portions of Los Angeles County and Orange County. He is the Chair of the Senate Committee on Military and Veterans Affairs, and a member of the Business Professions and Economic Development Committee, Governmental Organization Committee, Transportation Committee, Energy Committee, the Joint Legislative Committee on Emergency Management, as well a Member of the Armenian Legislative Caucus. Website of Senator Bob Archuleta: https://sd30.senate.ca.gov/

Office Information

Capitol Office

1021 O Street, Suite 6620

Sacramento, CA 95814

Phone: (916) 651-4030

District Office

12501 Imperial Hwy. Ste. 110

Norwalk, CA 90650

Phone: (562) 406-1001

California State Senate | Democratic Caucus © 2025 | Privacy Policy | Accessibility Statement