Senator Dave Cortese (D-Silicon Valley) made the following statement about California Governor Gavin Newsom’s 2021-22 State Budget proposal that was introduced this morning in Sacramento:

“I applaud and commend Governor Gavin Newsom for presenting a budget that will provide critical relief to California families struggling during this pandemic and rebuild our economy in a stable and equitable way. The proposed budget keeps important safety net measures in place while remaining fiscally prudent, providing much needed immediate relief to low-income individuals and families that are experiencing housing and economic insecurity. As the COVID-19 public health crisis continues to threaten the livelihood of countless families and businesses across California, I appreciate that the proposal prioritizes economic recovery efforts to assist businesses of all sizes as well as workers that are the backbone of our economy. This includes an additional $575 million towards the COVID-19 California Small Business Relief Grant program that will provide critical assistance to small business. A strong proponent of addressing and preventing homelessness and co-chair of the Measure A affordable housing bond campaign in Santa Clara County, I am particularly pleased to see $500 million go towards job creation and the production of affordable housing in conjunction with local governments. I applaud Governor Newsom for his unwavering commitment to combatting climate change including the proposed $1.5 billion investment to create jobs and help the state reach its pledge of requiring 100% electric vehicle sales by 2035. Given the state’s ambitious climate goals and the mounting dangers of climate change on our environment, health, air quality, and well-being, these investments are critical. Throughout this budget process, I will continue to advocate for the state to invest in our workers, the well-being our children, housing that is affordable and accessible, critical infrastructure required in our healthcare and hospital systems, resources for our most vulnerable, and a forward-thinking economic recovery package.”

“I applaud and commend Governor Gavin Newsom for presenting a budget that will provide critical relief to California families struggling during this pandemic and rebuild our economy in a stable and equitable way.

The proposed budget keeps important safety net measures in place while remaining fiscally prudent, providing much needed immediate relief to low-income individuals and families that are experiencing housing and economic insecurity.

As the COVID-19 public health crisis continues to threaten the livelihood of countless families and businesses across California, I appreciate that the proposal prioritizes economic recovery efforts to assist businesses of all sizes as well as workers that are the backbone of our economy. This includes an additional $575 million towards the COVID-19 California Small Business Relief Grant program that will provide critical assistance to small business.

A strong proponent of addressing and preventing homelessness and co-chair of the Measure A affordable housing bond campaign in Santa Clara County, I am particularly pleased to see $500 million go towards job creation and the production of affordable housing in conjunction with local governments.

I applaud Governor Newsom for his unwavering commitment to combatting climate change including the proposed $1.5 billion investment to create jobs and help the state reach its pledge of requiring 100% electric vehicle sales by 2035. Given the state’s ambitious climate goals and the mounting dangers of climate change on our environment, health, air quality, and well-being, these investments are critical.

Throughout this budget process, I will continue to advocate for the state to invest in our workers, the well-being our children, housing that is affordable and accessible, critical infrastructure required in our healthcare and hospital systems, resources for our most vulnerable, and a forward-thinking economic recovery package.”

For more information, contact Tara Sreekrishnan, Office of Senator Dave Cortese at 408 480 7833 or tara.sreekrishnan@sen.ca.gov .

Office Information

Capitol Office

1021 O Street Suite 7520 Sacramento, CA 95814

Phone: (916) 651-4015 Fax: (916) 651-4915

San Jose Office

1155 Meridian Avenue Suite 100 San Jose, CA 95125

Phone: (408) 723-4154 Fax: (408) 723-4159

California State Senate | Democratic Caucus © 2025 | Privacy Policy | Accessibility Statement

Senator Cortese’s Statement on Governor’s 2021-22 State Budget Proposal