PICO RIVERA – Senator Bob Archuleta (D-Pico Rivera) celebrated a major budget win for Senate District 32 by announcing $1,000,000 in funding for Smith Park Aquatic Center in the City of Pico Rivera. The upcoming emergency repairs and an overhaul of the boiler system that heats the pool’s waters were publicly announced during a community celebration on Thursday, October 7, 2021 alongside residents and city leaders as part of the Senator’s ongoing commitment to family recreation and education centers.

“During this past year and a half, we all found a renewed appreciation for our cherished recreational centers as they offered us an outdoor space to exercise and take a break from our homes during stressful times. This is an important first step in the revitalization of this vital community resource, and I am excited to see it receive emergency repairs funding. This park is a rarity for offering something for all of our community members: a shaded seating area to accommodate large groups and families, close proximity to the surrounding Smith Park field for event hosting opportunities, and ease of access for those in the surrounding community.”

Smith Park Aquatic Center is located within the City of Pico Rivera at 6016 Rosemead Boulevard, at the intersection of Rosemead Boulevard and Mines Avenue, and is within walking distance of hundreds of homes, thousands of residents, a middle school and two elementary schools, meaning this budget win will be felt in many households for generations to come.

“This is truly a generational investment in our community as parents, children, and families will all be able to better enjoy Smith Park Aquatic Center for many years to come with the repairs and renovations this budget award will kick-start. I am truly committed to these kind of generational improvements in our community, and am excited about future opportunities to serve our community by working for more budget wins for the City of Pico Rivera.”

Senator Bob Archuleta represents the 32nd Senate District, which includes portions of Los Angeles County and Orange County. He is Chair of the Senate Committee on Military and Veterans Affairs, Chair of the Select Committee on Hydrogen Energy, and member of the Senate Select Committee on California, Armenia and Artsakh Mutual Trade, Art and Cultural Exchange.

###

Office Information

Capitol Office

1021 O Street, Suite 6620

Sacramento, CA 95814

Phone: (916) 651-4030

District Office

12501 Imperial Hwy. Ste. 110

Norwalk, CA 90650

Phone: (562) 406-1001

California State Senate | Democratic Caucus © 2025 | Privacy Policy | Accessibility Statement