Senator Dave Cortese (D-Silicon Valley) has chosen Silicon Valley De-Bug as Senate District 15’s 2022 California Nonprofit of the Year.

Silicon Valley De-Bug is a nationally recognized nonprofit based out of San José focused on grassroots community organizing, advocacy, and multimedia storytelling for a more just Santa Clara County and region. De-Bug has led campaigns centered around criminal justice reform, economic justice, housing and immigrant rights.

This year, they are sponsors of Senate Bill (SB) 300 authored by Senator Cortese, a bill to reform California’s unjust “felony murder special circumstance” law as well as the life in prison without parole (LWOP) sentence.

De-Bug has also led efforts to prioritize a ‘care-first, jail-last’ model, including working with Senator Cortese to attempt to halt the construction of a new jail in Santa Clara County in favor of a Behavioral Health Center to treat people with mental illness.

“By sharing the stories of those that often go unheard in our political system, crafting a model for community organizing that lifts up marginalized voices and inspires action, Silicon Valley De-Bug has become a driving force for good in our community, our state and beyond,” says Senator Cortese. “I am proud to honor Silicon Valley De-Bug as Senate District 15’s nonprofit of the year.”

Raj Jayadev, Founder of Silicon Valley De-Bug, said the following: “We are honored to be recognized by Senator Cortese - particularly since he, as a legislator, has been a such a strong supporter and advocate for our communities. I can’t think of a more pivotal time politically in California, and De-Bug is proud to be part of a larger movement across the state pushing from the ground up for freedom and justice for us all. What started as a platform for young people determined to carve out their futures on their own terms, families to fight back against incarceration, communities to challenge police violence, has become a larger opportunity to be history-makers. We found our potential was in supporting one another, regardless the struggle, and that collective strength is our path forward”

“Nonprofit organizations play such a critical role in our communities, and the last two years of the pandemic have only served to highlight that,” noted Jan Masaoka, CEO of the California Association of Nonprofits (CalNonprofits), which serves as a partner for this awards program. “California Nonprofit of the Year gives elected officials the opportunity to shine a light on the important work nonprofits are doing in their districts and for everyone to appreciate the collective impact of nonprofits in our communities.”

Office Information

Capitol Office

1021 O Street Suite 7520 Sacramento, CA 95814

Phone: (916) 651-4015 Fax: (916) 651-4915

San Jose Office

1155 Meridian Avenue Suite 100 San Jose, CA 95125

Phone: (408) 723-4154 Fax: (408) 723-4159

California State Senate | Democratic Caucus © 2025 | Privacy Policy | Accessibility Statement

Silicon Valley De-Bug Chosen as Senate District 15’s Nonprofit of the Year