Senate President pro Tempore Mike McGuire (D-North Coast) and Senate Budget and Fiscal Review Committee Chair Senator Scott Wiener (D-San Francisco) released the following statement in response to Governor Gavin Newsom’s May revision to the proposed state budget for the 2025-2026 fiscal year:

“We’ve been preparing for this challenging budget year for quite some time, which has been made even more difficult by an openly hostile federal administration that’s coming for many of the policies and programs that make California great. The Senate will be presenting its version of the budget in the weeks to come, but one thing you can take to the bank today, is that we will never stop fighting for those who most need someone in their corner. We remain focused and prepared to protect the people and progress we’ve made over the years. Tough decisions are needed to deliver a balanced and on time budget, but no matter the obstacles, we’re going to deliver for the people of the Golden State.”

State Senator Dave Cortese (D-Silicon Valley) made the following statements about California Governor Gavin Newsom’s revised state budget known as the “May Revision.”

On the increasing state deficit:

“The cost of the January wildfires that ravaged the Los Angeles area combined with deep, unacceptable federal cuts to medical care for California’s elderly, poor and undocumented residents and a economic upheaval caused by federal tariffs are no doubt contributing to our state’s increasing deficit. Still California must take a sober look at its own spending that contributed to the increasing deficit while maintaining our priorities for educating our children, protecting the vulnerable, and keeping the public safe. We must tightly manage our state’s resources to mitigate some of the federal cuts,” said Senator Dave Cortese.

On Medi-Cal and Local Health Systems :

“I strongly oppose the proposed federal cuts to Medicaid and the Governor’s new proposal to scale back the state’s commitment to give health care to our undocumented residents as a result of those federal cuts. This plan will torpedo the health care of more than 72,000 patients at Santa Clara Valley Medical Center alone, cost the County millions and break the back of our four County hospitals and 15 clinics. I am committed to protecting Medi-Cal, the foundation of California’s health safety net. At a time when over 14 million Californians depend on Medi-Cal, including half of all patients in Santa Clara County’s public hospitals, these cuts pose an unacceptable threat to public health, equity, and fiscal stability,” said Senator Dave Cortese (D-Silicon Valley). “I am convening County health officials from Los Angeles to the Bay Area, including those in Santa Clara County, and hospital system leaders to develop a unified strategy to safeguard funding, ensure continuity of care, and mitigate the impact of federal budget decisions. This includes exploring all available state-level actions to protect vulnerable populations, maintain essential services like trauma care and behavioral health, and prevent deepening disparities in underserved communities. Congress may be walking away from its obligation to the poor, the elderly, and the disabled, but California will not,” said Senator Dave Cortese.

On State Funding for Education:

For the past 22 years following the release of the May Revision, Senator Dave Cortese has sponsored an annual Sacramento Bus Trip for Education from San Jose to Sacramento for students, teachers and educational advocates. With all the turmoil in Washington D.C. under the new Administration, the proposed state and federal funding cuts to educational programs have raised many questions. This year participants will advocate for stronger investments in schools, protections against looming federal cuts, and a state budget that reflects the needs of students and educators across the state.

“While the May Revise reflects a challenging fiscal environment, I’m encouraged that the Governor has preserved the core of our TK-14 investments. The continued support for transitional kindergarten, universal meals, and a cost-of-living adjustment for our schools signals a commitment to protecting our students, even in tight budget years,” said Senator Cortese.

“That said, the underlying inequities in our education funding system remain. My bill, SB 743, would begin to close the funding gap between districts without taking away a single dollar from existing school budgets. We can, and must, build a more equitable funding formula so that every child in California has access to the same opportunity to succeed, no matter their ZIP code.”

On Transportation:

Senator Dave Cortese is chair of the Senate Transportation Committee. The state’s High Speed Rail project continues to be a priority:

“It is very good news that the Governor will reauthorize Cap and Trade until 2045 meaning the California’s High Speed Rail Project will be getting one billion dollars annually. This makes my Senate Bill 545 even more relevant because it would commission a study on the extraordinary commercial and residential economic development opportunities along the California High Speed Rail corridor focusing on increased land value, development incentives and public-private partnerships from Los Angeles to San Francisco,” said Senator Dave Cortese, chair of the Senate Transportation Committee. “The project has already created 14,600 high-quality jobs, engaged 880 small businesses and will prevent 142 million metric tons of carbon dioxide emissions. There will be massive development potential along the 400 mile corridor.  The study will help guide the state to examine opportunities for major residential and commercial development in the High Speed Rail corridor, synergy which can help pay for the infrastructure itself.

Threats by the federal government to withhold funding for High Speed Rail will not stop the project because that pool of money is just a small fraction of the project’s budget,”

On Proposition 1 and Homelessness:

“I commend Governor Gavin Newsom’s plan to distribute $3.3 billion in grant funding from the voter-approved Proposition 1 bond money. This will create more than 5,000 residential treatment beds and more than 21,800 outpatient treatment slots for behavioral health care services throughout California,” said Senator Dave Cortese. “This will definitely expand residential beds and treatment slots but we can’t stop our efforts at the local and state levels to create more residential beds as the homeless population in need of mental health services continues to grow. Many affordable housing projects being built around the state include wrap-around behavioral health services and counseling. The problem is we need to build those units faster and smarter.”

###

Office Information

Capitol Office

1021 O Street Suite 7520 Sacramento, CA 95814

Phone: (916) 651-4015 Fax: (916) 651-4915

San Jose Office

1155 Meridian Avenue Suite 100 San Jose, CA 95125

Phone: (408) 723-4154 Fax: (408) 723-4159

California State Senate | Democratic Caucus © 2025 | Privacy Policy | Accessibility Statement

STATEMENT ON MAY REVISION FROM STATE SENATOR DAVE CORTESE