Senator Dave Cortese (D-San Jose) has secured $2 million to assist local jurisdictions with the removal of trash and debris from local streets and along state highways in Santa Clara County.

The Budget Act of 2021 (SB/AB 129) that the State Legislature passed this week included Senator Cortese’s proposal under which the Santa Clara County Consumer & Environmental Protection Agency (CEPA), in collaboration with the County’s 15 cities, would identify and prioritize beautification areas and litter abatement opportunities in Santa Clara County.

Senator Cortese issued the following statement on his proposal’s inclusion in the Budget Act of 2021:

“Trash accumulation and littering is a mounting concern in our community that has placed an unfair burden on our residents.

“This is an issue I have gotten to know well during my time as a City Councilmember and County Supervisor, including the cross-agency collaboration that is necessary for alleviation.

“I would like to thank my colleagues in the State Legislature for recognizing this concern and prioritizing local community investments such as this in our state budget.

“By expanding an existing program, this funding can swiftly and effectively address litter and debris hotspots across all neighborhoods in Santa Clara County that need abatement or pose safety concerns.”

The funding would provide resources to implement cleanup programs including trash, debris, and overgrown vegetation throughout the county. Priority would be given to hotspots along freeway interchanges and Caltrans right of ways. Additionally, funds may be used to address hotspots that pose a safety concern in neighborhoods.

Currently, CEPA manages a multi-year agreement with Caltrans and San Jose Conservation Corp (SJCC) to cleanup Caltrans right of ways Countywide. The agreement provides that SJCC, overseen by CEPA, will be responsible for the removal of waste from CalTrans right of ways. The agreement has led to the efficient cleanup and beautification of numerous areas in the county, will be expiring in the 2022 fiscal year.

CEPA has developed the relationships and processes needed to successfully expand cleanups to more areas across the 15 cities located in the County and outside of the CalTrans right of ways.

Office Information

Capitol Office

1021 O Street Suite 7520 Sacramento, CA 95814

Phone: (916) 651-4015 Fax: (916) 651-4915

San Jose Office

1155 Meridian Avenue Suite 100 San Jose, CA 95125

Phone: (408) 723-4154 Fax: (408) 723-4159

California State Senate | Democratic Caucus © 2025 | Privacy Policy | Accessibility Statement

State Legislature Approves Funds for Litter Abatement in Santa Clara County