Today, 50 State Senators and Assembly Members, including top leadership in the State Legislature, sent a letter to the Alliance of Motion Picture and Television Producers urging the association to negotiate collaboratively and in good faith with Hollywood craft workers advocating for improved wages and working conditions on movie and television sets.

Behind-the-scenes workers such as camera operators, cinematographers, editors, grips, hair and makeup artists, costumers, lighting technicians, and art directors – the engines of the entertainment industry and creative arts – have played an essential role in keeping film and television productions running throughout the COVID-19 pandemic, often at risk to their own health, safety, and well-being. For months, the International Alliance of Theatrical Stage Employees, which represents 60,000 individuals, has been negotiating a new contract with the producers.

California is home to the most vibrant entertainment industry in the world and to 52,000 crew and craftspeople who contribute greatly to our state’s economy and culture. We take pride in the incredible productions made in California and the Legislature has worked hard to incentivize bringing work home. Our state’s investment helped to revive this industry and we are happy to see that production has returned to pre-pandemic levels.

“The key issues in this negotiation, as we’ve come to understand them, are about worker dignity and basic human necessities. We are unified in our belief in the importance of living wages, sustainable benefits, and reasonable rest periods between shifts and during the workday,” the members wrote in the letter . “We ask that the AMPTP negotiate collaboratively with these workers to reach a fair contract and address the basic human needs that will allow them to do their jobs safely and with dignity.”

The letter was signed by Senators Atkins, Allen, Becker, Caballero, Cortese, Durazo, L. Gonzalez, Hertzberg, Hueso, Laird, Leyva, Min, Newman, Portantino, Rubio, Skinner, Stern, Umberg, and Wiener; and by Assembly Members Rendon, Aguiar Curry, Bennett, Berman, Bloom , Boerner Horvath, Bonta, Burke, Calderon, Carrillo, Cervantes, Chiu, Friedman, C Garcia, Gabriel, Gonzalez, Irwin, Jones-Sawyer, Kalra, Lee, Levine, McCarty, Nazarian, O’Donnell, Quirk-Silva, L Rivas, R Rivas, Rubio, Santiago, Ward, Wicks.

Click here to read the Senate letter and here to read the Assembly letter , or read the full text below:

Dear Ms. Lombardini:

California is home to the most vibrant entertainment industry in the world. We are all proud of the incredible productions made in California and the Legislature has worked hard to incentivize bringing work home. Our state’s investment helped to revive this industry and we are happy to see that production is booming.

On behalf of our constituents, who work in, rely upon, and benefit from the work in this industry, we urge you to negotiate fair successor contracts with the International Alliance of Theatrical Stage Employees (IATSE).

The men and women of IATSE, including production and department coordinators, writers’ assistants, cinematographers, costumers, grips, script supervisors, technicians, designers, and other essential below-the-line employees, are the backbone of this industry. Their hard work, skill and dedication helps to create the magic of Hollywood.

These workers have risked their health and safety for the past year, working through the COVID-19 pandemic to ensure the motion picture and television industry remained intact. Production has now returned to pre-pandemic levels, due in no small part to the essential role these workers play in the creative process. The entertainment you jointly produce is helping to heal our nation.

The key issues in this negotiation, as we understand them, are about worker dignity and basic human necessities. We are unified in our belief in the importance of living wages, sustainable benefits, and reasonable rest periods between shifts and during the workday.

AMPTP’s unwillingness to reasonably or responsibly respond to these and other important issues has reportedly created a deadlock and compelled IATSE to call a nationwide strike authorization vote on October 1, 2021. A strike would dramatically disrupt the industry, the economy, and the communities we represent. We are hopeful that both sides can negotiate in good faith and reach a consensus agreement, which necessitates both parties continuing to participate in ongoing negotiations.

The strong labor-management partnership in the entertainment industry has been essential to its success. It has also been key to the ability of all the unions and employers to respond when faced with difficult issues that impact the industry as evidenced by the unique COVID safety protocols that were jointly agreed to and put in place in 2020.   We urge the AMPTP to recognize the sacrifices made by workers in this industry, to negotiate in good faith, and to reach a fair contract to address the core issues of health and safety, reasonable workhours, and fair pay.

Behind every great film and television show is a hardworking crew. Let’s work together to keep this industry thriving and ensure fair treatment for our skilled craftspeople and crew.

cc.   Melissa Patack, Vice President, State Government Affairs, Motion Picture Association

California IATSE Council

Office Information

Capitol Office

1021 O Street Suite 7520 Sacramento, CA 95814

Phone: (916) 651-4015 Fax: (916) 651-4915

San Jose Office

1155 Meridian Avenue Suite 100 San Jose, CA 95125

Phone: (408) 723-4154 Fax: (408) 723-4159

California State Senate | Democratic Caucus © 2025 | Privacy Policy | Accessibility Statement

State Legislators Call for Improved Wages and Working Conditions for Behind-the-Scenes Entertainment Workers