SB 474 (The BASIC Act) would reduce the markup of products sold at prison canteens, which can exceed anywhere between 63% to 200% above market value

(SACRAMENTO) – Today, the California Legislature voted overwhelmingly to approve Senate Bill No. 474 by Senator Josh Becker (D-San Mateo) and send it to the Governor for his signature. Also known as The BASIC Act, this bill reduces markups on items sold in prison canteen stores and caps the markup on the price paid to the vendor for a product at 35% for four years.

“The burdens of prison canteen markups do not just impact the financial health and the physical wellbeing of incarcerated individuals, but their loved ones, as well.” said Senator Becker . “We need to end the egregious and cruel markups of food and hygiene items that are sold in prison canteens. We have a $15 billion prison budget in this state. It is time we stop profiting off the sale of basic necessities to one of our state’s most vulnerable populations.”

"I have family who have been incarcerated,” said Assembly Majority Leader Bryan (D-Los Angeles) , which is a principal co-author and presented the bill on the Assembly Floor. “I've got J-Pay on my phone right now. You send a hygiene kit or you send some noodles, and then you see your final fines and fees, and you realize that this is the most expensive cup of noodles you've ever seen."

"Many people who have not been incarcerated assume that California provides sufficient food and hygiene supplies, but in reality… incarcerated people are not receiving enough food or personal hygiene items to survive their prison life with dignity,” said BASIC Act Coalition member Sandra Johnson from Legal Aid At Work, a nonprofit organization that provides free legal services for low-income families.

“My family was subjected to the prices, the high prices that CDCR has basically forced upon them, and their only crime being that they love me and they believe, you know, that I was redeemable," said Jesus Cortez from All of Us or None, a grassroots nonprofit that advocates for incarcerated people and their loved ones.

The current canteen markup hovers around 63% to 200%, making many essential food and hygiene items completely out of reach, further increasing the economic burden of incarceration on families. Recent price lists have demonstrated that prices increased at least three times this year in some facilities with toothpaste now sold for $6, coffee for $9.05, and toilet paper for $1 per roll. This is more than a 200% increase above what the average consumer would pay for these items.

SB 474 is supported by an extensive coalition of justice advocates, has received strong bipartisan support throughout the legislative process, and now heads to the Senate for a final vote before heading to the Governor`s office for his signature.

###

Senator Becker represents the 13th Senate District covering portions of Santa Clara and San Mateo counties and includes the cities of Atherton, Belmont, Brisbane, Burlingame, East Palo Alto, Foster City, Half Moon Bay, Hillsborough, Los Altos, Los Altos Hills, Menlo Park, Millbrae, Mountain View, Pacifica, Palo Alto, Redwood City, San Bruno, San Carlos, San Mateo, South San Francisco, and Woodside.

Office Information

Capitol Office

1021 O Street, Suite 6520

District Office

3525 Alameda de las Pulgas Menlo Park, CA 94025 Phone: (650) 233-2724

Social Media

California State Senate | Democratic Caucus © 2023 | Privacy Policy | Accessibility Statement

September 8, 2025

August 28, 2025

August 19, 2025

July 28, 2025

The BASIC Act by Senator Becker Receives Strong Bipartisan Vote in Legislature

Statement from Bay Area Caucus on Preserving the $750 Million Bay Area Transit Bridge Loan

Creating Change – August 2025

Is California on Track for 2030?

Creating Change – July 2025