SACRAMENTO – State Senator Akilah Weber Pierson, M.D. (D-San Diego) celebrated a major milestone as a slate of groundbreaking bills advanced out of the Assembly Appropriations Committee and moved to the Assembly Floor for a vote. Together, these bills reflect Senator Weber Pierson’s commitment to public health, reproductive justice, racial equity, and community wellbeing.

“As a physician, mother, and legislator, I am guided by the belief that every Californian deserves equitable access to quality care, safe products, and meaningful justice,” said Senator Weber Pierson, M.D. “These bills bring us one step closer to a future where the health and dignity of all communities, especially the underserved, are respected and protected.”

The legislative package includes:

SB 236 – CURL Act Bans toxic chemicals in hair relaxer products linked to cancer and reproductive harm—products disproportionately marketed to Black women and girls.

SB 437 – California State University: Genealogical Claim Eligibility Requires CSU to establish a process to verify genealogical eligibility for reparative claims, supporting access to reparations for descendants of enslaved people.

SB 439 – California Health Benefit Review Program Extension Extends the sunset date on the California Health Benefits Review Program (CHBRP) to July 1, 2033 and provides a funding increase to $3.2 million.

SB 503 – Health Care Services: Artificial Intelligence Bias Monitoring Ensures that AI used in healthcare is monitored for racial, gender, and other demographic biases, promoting equitable outcomes in clinical decision-making and the allocation of healthcare resources.

SB 518 – Bureau for Descendants of American Slavery Establishes a dedicated state agency to oversee implementation of reparative justice policies and ensure follow-through on recommendations from the California Reparations Task Force.

SB 646 – Prenatal Vitamins: Heavy Metals Testing Requires public disclosure and testing of prenatal vitamins for heavy metals, ensuring safer prenatal health for expectant mothers and babies.

All six bills are now on the Assembly Floor awaiting a vote, bringing them one step closer to the Governor’s desk and to becoming California law.

For more information about these bills or to request an interview, please contact Albert Parnell at Albert.Parnell@sen.ca.gov or 916-651-4039.

###

Senator Akilah Weber Pierson, M.D. represents California's 39th Senate District, which includes portions of San Diego County, the cities of Coronado, El Cajon, La Mesa, and Lemon Grove, as well as portions of the City of San Diego.

Get In Touch

Dr. Akilah Weber Pierson was elected November 2024 to represent California’s 39th Senate District...

SD39 Offices

1021 O St.

Suite #7310

Sacramento, CA 95814

Phone: (916) 651-4039

7575 Metropolitan Dr.

Suite #100

San Diego, CA 92108

Phone: (619) 688-6700

Quicklinks

DISTRICT

RESOURCES

PRESS RELEASES

CONTACT

California State Senate
|
Democratic Caucus
©
|
Privacy Policy
|
Accessibility Statement