SACRAMENTO – The governor recently signed Senate Bill 224 into law which seeks to protect farmers from rural agricultural theft. In partnership with Tulare County Sheriff Mike Boudreaux, Senate Republican Leader Shannon Grove ( R-Bakersfield ) introduced SB 224 which will provide necessary resources to help law enforcement with their efforts to curb agricultural crime.

SB 224 will:

Create a new category for grand theft of agricultural property.

Require that the fines collected be redistributed back to current agriculture and rural-based crime prevention programs.

“I thank the governor for signing this important bill into law. We need to protect and help our hardworking farmers who not only feed California, but much of the United States.

“Farming is not a typical 9-to-5 job. California farmers work long hours, relying on Mother Nature’s schedule. Agriculture is a unique industry, and unfortunately, farmers’ needs are often overlooked. One of those needs is commonsense legislation which seeks to protect them from agricultural theft.

“Tulare County is one of the top-producing agricultural counties in our state. In 2018, the county recorded a staggering $2 million in agricultural theft. For this reason, I partnered with Tulare County Sheriff Mike Boudreaux to help our farmers,” said Senate Republican Leader Shannon Grove.

Tulare County Sheriff Mike Boudreaux said,” Agriculture is the backbone of Tulare County. Our identity is wrapped up in the success of our farmers, ranchers, laborers and everyone else who is involved and impacted by Ag. When our partners in Agriculture are victimized, we are all victimized. People lose jobs. Prices go up. Livelihoods are lost. I, personally, cannot stand back and watch that happen. Senate Bill 224 is a necessary step forward in much-needed legislation to protect our growers. And I hope our legislators can recognize its importance. It is long over-do.”

Capitol Office

1021 O Street, Room 7150 Sacramento, CA 95814 Phone: (916) 651-4012 Fax: (916) 651-4916

Bakersfield Office

5701 Truxtun Ave., Suite 150 Bakersfield, CA 93309 Phone: (661) 323-0443 Fax: (661) 323-0446

Fresno Office

567 W. Shaw Ave., Suite A-3 Fresno, CA 93704 Phone:  559-243-8580

facebook Facebook

twitter Twitter

instagram Instagram

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

Home

About Shannon Biography Committees 12th Senate District Map

Biography

Committees

12th Senate District Map

Legislation My Legislation Bill Search Submit a Legislative Proposal

My Legislation

Bill Search

Submit a Legislative Proposal

Newsroom Releases / Editorials Photos

Releases / Editorials

Photos

Resources California Senate Fellows Program Coronavirus Information Education Register to Vote Unclaimed Property Veteran Resources

California Senate Fellows Program

Coronavirus Information

Education

Register to Vote

Unclaimed Property

Veteran Resources

Contact me My Offices E-mail the Senator Subscribe

My Offices

E-mail the Senator

Subscribe

Agricultural Theft Legislation Is a Victory for California's Farmers

More News

View All

Breadcrumb

Aug 29
Senator Shannon Grove Celebrates Advancement of Key Bills for Special Education and Rural Healthcare, Expresses Disappointment Over Scrapping of Leno’s Law
Aug 27
VIDEO: Celebrity advocate Paris Hilton calls for passage of child protection measure ahead of key vote
Aug 25
Senator Shannon Grove and Assemblyman David Tangipa  Honor Retired NFL Quarterback, Derek Carr
Aug 21
Senator Shannon Grove opposes Democrats' attempt to override the will of California voters