SACRAMENTO –  Today, Assemblymember Alanis announced that the last dour bills in his legislative package for this year have successfully passed through the legislature. All four bills are now on the Governor’s desk for his consideration.
“I want to thank my colleagues on both sides of the aisle for their support on these important measures. These bills will work to promote public safety, fight the opioid pandemic, and bring critical resources for our state’s youth,” said Assemblymember Alanis. “These measures are a result of good-faith negotiations and trust formed through meaningful relationships I have been able to build in Sacramento on behalf of my constituents.”
AB 1817 (Homelessness: Youth) works to fight the issue of youth homelessness by directing the California Interagency Council on Homelessness to consider food security and economic stability when gathering data and supporting homeless youth.
AB 1859 (Opioids: Tranq) would require coroners to test for xylazine (Tranq) in specific autopsy cases, securing the data needed to safeguard public health and safety.
AB 1871 (Education: Financial Literacy) would improve the future success of our next generation by mandating the inclusion of personal financial literacy in the social sciences curriculum for grades 7-12.
AB 1954 (Public Safety: Sexually Violent Predators) would enhance public safety and promote accountability within the Department of State Hospitals by requiring the Department to notify additional law enforcement agencies of counties being considered for placement of sexually violent predators.
“As I’ve stated from the start of my term, public safety and fighting for our children are some of my top priorities. These bills underscore that commitment,” Alanis said. “I will continue bringing forth bipartisan, common-sense measures that aim to improve the lives of all Californians.”
AB 1817, AB 1859, AB 1871, and AB 1954 are the 9
th
, 10
th
, 11
th
and 12
th
Alanis authored bills to reach the Governor’s desk this year. In his first term in the State Assembly the Assemblymember has sent a total of seventeen bills to the Governor. Out of those seventeen bills, eight have been signed into law and nine are awaiting the Governor’s review.
Assemblymember Juan Alanis represents the 22
nd
Assembly District, which includes the communities of Modesto, Turlock, Ceres, Denair, Patterson, Gustine, Newman, Hilmar, Ballico, Snelling, Keyes, Grayson, Crows Landing, Diablo Grande, Stevinson, & Empire.