SACRAMENTO – Today, Assemblymember Alanis announced the introduction of four bills aimed at protecting minors and victims of violent crime. The bill package seeks to prevent violent crime and enhance safeguards for crime victims.
“As a former detective specializing in crimes against children, I witnessed firsthand the legal and resource challenges faced daily by our local law enforcement agencies,” said Alanis. “Since coming to Sacramento, I’ve focused on effecting real change to better support our front-line officers and agency partners who tirelessly protect our children and communities from California’s most dangerous criminals.”
Following his reappointment as Vice-Chair of the Assembly Public Safety Committee, Assemblymember Alanis reaffirmed his commitment to advocating for victims’ rights and enhancing safeguards for our most vulnerable citizens. AB 528 establishes stricter guidelines for handling evidence in criminal cases involving child pornography, ensuring that such evidence remains under the custody of prosecutors and the court to prevent re-victimization of children. The bill is currently awaiting a hearing in the Assembly Public Safety Committee.
AB 603 proposes a new framework for asset forfeiture targeting convicted human traffickers, with 50% of seized assets allocated to victim services and the other 50% to law enforcement efforts against human trafficking. If enacted, this legislation would provide additional funding to state and local programs supporting human trafficking victims and task forces. AB 603 is awaiting a hearing in the Assembly Public Safety Committee.
Additionally, AB 277 aims to expand background checks for individuals providing behavioral health treatment. If passed, individuals convicted of crimes involving minors would be prohibited from working in these treatment facilities, adding an extra layer of protection for children. AB 277 is currently awaiting a hearing in the Assembly Human Services Committee.
AB 767, as introduced, will clarify appropriate placement locations for sexually violent predators (SVPs) conditionally released, aiming to prevent their proximity to minors in sensitive places like home schools or daycares.  AB 767 currently awaits a hearing in Assembly Education Committee.
“All four bills are designed to utilize government authority as intended – to protect our most vulnerable,” stated Alanis. “I am proud of the progress my team and I have made in this area and look forward to continuing our crucial work in enhancing protections for children and crime victims, while supporting the mission of our law enforcement agencies to serve and protect our communities.”
Assemblymember Juan Alanis represents the 22
nd
Assembly District, which includes the communities of Modesto, Turlock, Ceres, Denair, Patterson, Gustine, Newman, Hilmar, Ballico, Snelling, Keyes, Grayson, Crows Landing, Diablo Grande, Stevinson, & Empire.