SACRAMENTO – Assemblymember Alanis announced today that his bills, aimed at reducing food waste and addressing food insecurity in schools, and his bill supporting California’s long history of thoroughbred racing have been signed into law by the Governor.
“I am proud to announce that my bill to address food insecurity and waste has been signed by the Governor,” said Assemblymember Alanis. “This bill is a testament to my commitment to working across the aisle to develop creative solutions for the challenges facing our communities. I will always look for good policy to what’s best for our kids.”
AB 2324 authorizes the Secretary of Food and Agriculture to sell or donate seized avocados directly to school food pantries, thereby enhancing access to fresh produce for students. This bill builds upon existing laws that allow donations to nonprofits but focuses specifically on benefiting school food pantries. It ensures that avocados, which might otherwise go to waste, are redirected to students in need, promoting both food security and student well-being.
“California has long been a home to some of the most celebrated venues in horse racing,” said Assemblymember Juan Alanis. “With AB 1946, we are reinforcing the importance of this cherished sport to our state, while supporting the hardworking men and women who keep this industry thriving.”
AB 1954 allows California’s racing fairs and satellite wagering facilities to offer access to the prestigious Whitney Stakes’ during the season. This addition to the sport is expected to boost wagering activity and bring in much-needed revenue to support local businesses, jobs, and the local economy.
AB 2324 & AB 1946 will both take effect on January 1, 2025. They are the eleventh and twelfth bills authored by Alanis to be signed into law during his first term. As of today there are 4 more Alanis bills still awaiting the Governor’s review.
Assemblymember Juan Alanis represents the 22
nd
Assembly District, which includes the communities of Modesto, Turlock, Ceres, Denair, Patterson, Gustine, Newman, Hilmar, Ballico, Snelling, Keyes, Grayson, Crows Landing, Diablo Grande, Stevinson, & Empire.