SACRAMENTO –
Yesterday evening, Assemblymember Juan Alanis (R-Modesto) announced a major legislative victory as his priority public safety bill, AB 528, passed the Assembly floor with a decisive bipartisan vote. The bill would strengthen protections for victims of child sexual abuse material (CSAM) by prohibiting the duplication and removal of such evidence from secure locations.
“Today’s bipartisan support for AB 528 is a testament to our shared commitment to protecting the most vulnerable among us,” said Assemblymember Alanis. “This bill ensures that images of abused children are not duplicated or removed from secure locations, reducing the risk of further harm and aligning California with federal standards. I’m grateful for the Assembly’s strong support and look forward to working with the Senate to get this commonsense measure before the Governor.”
AB 528 aligns California’s criminal procedures with federal law by ensuring that CSAM evidence remains in the custody of law enforcement, prosecutors, or the courts. This measure prevents unauthorized reproduction or distribution of explicit material, safeguarding child victims from further trauma while maintaining access for defendants and their legal representatives to view and inspect the evidence in secure facilities.
“How do we better protect our kids is a question I ask in Sacramento each year,” added Alanis. “This bill is a vital step toward safeguarding the dignity and privacy of child victims while ensuring fair judicial proceedings. Protecting the most vulnerable among us will always be my top priority.”
AB 528 previously passed the Assembly Public Safety Committee with unanimous bipartisan support. Following yesterday’s floor vote in the Assembly, the bill heads to the State Senate for consideration. It is the seventh Alanis authored bill this year to win the approval of the full Assembly and pass out to the upper house of the State Legislature.
Assemblymember Juan Alanis represents the 22
nd
Assembly District, which includes the communities of Modesto, Turlock, Ceres, Denair, Patterson, Gustine, Newman, Hilmar, Ballico, Snelling, Keyes, Grayson, Crows Landing, Diablo Grande, Stevinson, & Empire.