SACRAMENTO – Yesterday, Assemblymember Alanis announced the passage of two public safety bills on the Assembly Floor. These measures, aimed at enhancing public safety and addressing pressing community health issues. They represent additional steps forward in the drug & addiction crisis.
“These bills are a testament to our commitment to proactive public safety measures and comprehensive community health strategies,” said Assemblymember Alanis. “By addressing these issues head-on, we are taking vital steps to protect our communities and save lives.”
The two bills, AB 1859 and AB 1996 focus on improving access to lifesaving medication and advancing research to combat the opioid epidemic.
AB 1859 would require coroners to test for the presence of xylazine, also known as Tranq, a deadly animal tranquilizer, in specific autopsy cases and report their findings to relevant authorities. This proactive initiative aims to address the threat posed by Tranq before it escalates, similar to early responses to the fentanyl crisis.
AB 1996 would mandate that public entertainment venues, such as stadiums and amusement parks, keep naloxone hydrochloride readily available to venue employees. By ensuring that staff at these venues are aware of the location of opioid antagonist medications, this bill aims to enhance the response to opioid overdoses, potentially saving numerous lives.
“As a former law enforcement officer, I have seen firsthand the impact that opioids have on our communities and the urgent need for intervention.” noted the Assemblyman. “My priority is to protect the safety and welfare of all Californians. These bills are essential for safeguarding the security and prosperity of our region’s residents.”
AB 1859 and AB 1996 passed the Assembly Floor unanimously and are awaiting assignment to a committee in the State Senate.
Assemblymember Juan Alanis represents the 22
nd
Assembly District, which includes the communities of Modesto, Turlock, Ceres, Denair, Patterson, Gustine, Newman, Hilmar, Ballico, Snelling, Keyes, Grayson, Crows Landing, Diablo Grande, Stevinson, & Empire.