SACRAMENTO – Yesterday, California Assembly Speaker Rivas announced that Assemblyman Juan Alanis would become the Vice Chairman of the Assembly Committee on Agriculture. In addition, the Assemblyman was added to the essential committees of Labor and Employment and Military and Veterans Affairs.
“I’m grateful to Assembly Speaker Rivas and Republican Leader Gallagher for their respective appointment and recommendation to these important committees,” said Assemblyman Alanis. “I look forward to continuing my engagement on the issues these committees will tackle next year.”
Critical issues like food access and cost of living, Fentanyl and retail theft, business licensing, workers’ rights, support for veterans’ access to benefits, consumer water rates, long-standing water rights, and access to California’s beautiful public spaces are all anticipated to be taken up in the coming year.
When the legislature returns
on January 3rd
, Assemblyman Alanis will serve on the following committees:
Committee on Agriculture (Vice-Chair)
Committee on Public Safety (Vice-Chair)
Committee on Business and Professions
Committee on Labor and Employment
Committee on Military and Veterans Affairs
Committee on Water, Parks and Wildlife
“These committees complement the wide-ranging and diverse district I was elected to represent,” said Alanis. “My neighbors and constituents in the 22nd Assembly District have made clear what issues are most important to them. I will continue fighting in Sacramento for good paying jobs, better healthcare, safe communities, parental rights, rights for the working class, taking care of our veterans, and affordable cost of living for everyone. I appreciate the trust and confidence given to me by colleagues on both sides of the aisle to do just that with these committee assignments. I have worked hard to develop working relationships built on hard-earned trust, and that’s why I believe I have been sat on these committees of importance, including holding the Vice Chairmanship of two critical committees to my district: Public Safety and Agriculture.”
Assemblymember Juan Alanis represents the 22
nd
Assembly District, which includes the communities of Modesto, Turlock, Ceres, Denair, Patterson, Gustine, Newman, Hilmar, Ballico, Snelling, Keyes, Grayson, Crows Landing, Diablo Grande, Stevinson, & Empire.