SACRAMENTO – Today, newly elected Assemblyman Juan Alanis (R-Modesto) announced that he will start his work for the constituents of the 22nd Assembly District by introducing the California Promise legislative package, which focuses on passing legislation that puts hardworking Californians first.
“Californians pay the highest income taxes in the nation, leaving far too many families struggling,” said Assemblyman Alanis. “I will fight for real policy solutions to ensure that every Californian can afford to live in the golden state. It is crucial, as legislators, to help families do more than just make ends meet and we can start by lowering tax rates for middle- and low-income taxpayers. We also need more water storage, and I will be introducing legislation that will put funding in place to ensure that we can build sufficient water infrastructure for all Californians, including my constituents in the Central Valley.”
Assemblyman Juan Alanis is dedicated to relieving the financial burden many are feeling right now by introducing legislation that will cut unnecessary taxes for Californians by lowering the income tax rates for the middle and lower class. This would allow taxpayers to keep more of their wages.
As part of the California Promise, Assemblyman Alanis will also introduce legislation that will place guaranteed funding for critical investments needed to ensure there is available water infrastructure and sufficient healthy forest and wildfire prevention to protect California. The proposal will help protect environmental health of our forested lands, which will combat wildfire risk and spur workforce development in rural areas of the state.
These efforts are just the beginning in bringing back the California Promise and newly elected Assemblyman Juan Alanis is a vessel to achieve an affordable, safe, and prosperous California.
Assemblyman Juan Alanis represents the 22nd Assembly District, which includes the communities of Modesto, Turlock, Ceres, Denair, Patterson, Gustine, Newman, Hilmar, Ballico, Snelling, Keyes, Grayson, Crows Landing, Diablo Grande, Stevinson, & Empire.