SACRAMENTO – This week, Assemblymember Juan Alanis introduced two legislative proposals to honor the service and commitment of Gold Star Families. The proposals are AB 293 – Lifetime hunting and sport fishing licenses and AB 308 – Free entry and access to state parks.
“It is common sense to me to add Gold Star Families to the existing list of those who have fees waived for hunting and fishing licenses and access to California’s State Parks,” said Assemblymember Juan Alanis. “It is a small but meaningful thing for us to do for these families. It honors the memory of fallen heroes and provides a little help with accessing the healing beauty and nature of our great state.”
AB 293 would exempt fees for lifetime hunting and sport fishing licenses for Gold Star Family Members. California law already allows for the issue of special lifetime hunting and sport fishing licenses. While AB 308 would exempt the fees for Gold Star Families to gain access to any park or facilities in the state park system of California. California already has a program for certain living veterans, such as former prisoners of war, disabled veterans, and Congressional Medal of Honor recipients, to have fees exempt for access passes to California State Parks.
For both legislative proposals, qualifying applicants would have to submit verification that they are a parent, sibling, child, or spouse at the time of a combat related death of a Service Member. They must also be residents of the State of California.
A Gold Star family is recognized as someone who has had a loved one killed while serving in combat in the United States Uniformed Services. According to the National Gold Star Registry, 711 California Gold Star families are officially registered from the Wars in Iraq and Afghanistan and 5,571 from the War in Vietnam.
Assemblyman Juan Alanis represents the 22nd Assembly District, which includes the communities of Modesto, Turlock, Ceres, Denair, Patterson, Gustine, Newman, Hilmar, Ballico, Snelling, Keyes, Grayson, Crows Landing, Diablo Grande, Stevinson, & Empire.