SACRAMENTO – This morning, Assemblymember Juan Alanis announced that AB 1954, which will increase transparency in the interest of public safety when Sexually Violent Predators (SVP) are being released, has been signed into law by the Governor.
“Rural communities are disproportionally impacted when it comes to placement of sexually violent predators,” said Assemblyman Alanis.  “It is imperative that all authorities critical to public’s safety are involved in decisions that pertain to the release and placement of these known violent predators into any specific community.”
AB 1954 focuses on strengthening law enforcement’s role in the placement process of SVPs. By enhancing community engagement and improving notification protocols, the bill ensures that law enforcement agencies and other key stakeholders are better informed and involved in decisions regarding SVP placements. This increased collaboration provides law enforcement with the necessary information and time to prepare and protect the communities they serve.
“In my first two years of office, the lack of communication and transparency was a major issue that directly impacted my district,” added Alanis. “Our law enforcement and community leaders need pertinent and timely information to do their jobs effectively. We must ensure SVPs are not placed in sensitive or inappropriate areas upon release, and AB 1954 will ensure that public safety leaders, such as Police Chiefs, Sheriffs, and District Attorneys, are duly informed and involved in the decision-making process.”
AB 1954 will go into effect on January 1, 2025.
It is the 16
th
Alanis authored bill signed into law in his first term. No further Alanis bills remain on the Governor’s desk for his consideration this year.
Assemblymember Juan Alanis represents the 22
nd
Assembly District, which includes the communities of Modesto, Turlock, Ceres, Denair, Patterson, Gustine, Newman, Hilmar, Ballico, Snelling, Keyes, Grayson, Crows Landing, Diablo Grande, Stevinson, & Empire.