SACRAMENTO—Today, Assemblymember Juan Alanis announced that AB 1972, part of the larger bipartisan legislative retail theft package, passed its final vote on the Assembly floor with a 73-0 vote.
“I am proud of the effort my team and I have made in collaboration with Assembly Speaker Rivas and my colleagues on both sides of the aisle,” said Assemblymember Alanis.  “We worked hard to bring meaningful and workable solutions to the table on retail theft, and AB 1972 along with the other bills in this package, is proof that when you leave your ego at the door and are willing to have the tough conversations, we can do well for all Californians.”
AB 1972 would expand the California Highway Patrol’s (CHP) regional property crimes task force to support identified counties with increased cargo theft. The bill will also requires the CHP to provide railroad police with logistical support and other law enforcement resources, such as personnel and equipment, to combat cargo theft.
“This bill is only part of the larger effort to address property crimes and retail theft that have severely plagued our communities and businesses,” added Alanis.  “I am proud to deliver on my day-one promise to find any common ground possible on the issue of retail theft and to provide for my district and all Californians. Doing nothing was not an option, and we worked through much political turbulence to get where we are today.”
When asked if he supports a voter-initiated ballot measure in November that would further address retail theft issues, Alanis said he supports the voters’ right to weigh in on any law directly and strongly supports additional comprehensive reforms.
AB 1972 now goes to the Governor for signature or veto. If signed, it would take effect immediately and is the only retail theft bill in the package to include an urgency clause. To meet the urgency threshold, the bill needed to pass both chambers with a two-thirds vote.
Assemblymember Juan Alanis represents the 22
nd
Assembly District, which includes the communities of Modesto, Turlock, Ceres, Denair, Patterson, Gustine, Newman, Hilmar, Ballico, Snelling, Keyes, Grayson, Crows Landing, Diablo Grande, Stevinson, & Empire.