SACRAMENTO – Today, Assemblymember Alanis proudly announced the introduction of three bills aimed at addressing California’s rising affordability crisis and strengthening workforce development.
“The lack of affordable child care has become a pressing issue across the state, including in my district,” said Assemblymember Alanis. “I introduced AB 318 to address the many bureaucratic burdens and red tape that makes it difficult for new child care businesses to open. We need to modernize the licensing process to reduce long delays and address complications caused by language barriers.”
Alanis introduced AB 318 this year as an effort to streamline the licensure process for child care providers in California. The bill would require the Department of Social Services (DSS) to offer digital applications and to accept credit card payments, removing unnecessary hurdles that delay access to care for families.
“I have also introduced AB 873 to help address the shortage of dental health care professionals,” Alanis added. “This bill strikes a balance between ensuring that dental assistants complete all necessary training and expanding access to high-quality dental care across the state.”
AB 873 aims to alleviate the statewide shortage of dental professionals by providing dental assistants with greater flexibility to complete required coursework while maintaining their employment, allowing them to begin serving patients earlier.
“After hearing from local fast-food franchise owners about the challenges facing their industry, I have decided to amend AB 244 which is one of my spot bills,” said Alanis. “This measure, when amended, will establish an Apprenticeship Program for fast-food restaurants, offering monetary incentives for small businesses and franchises to develop training programs and recruit new employees.”
AB 244 will be amended and then re-referred to the appropriate policy committee for consideration.
Assemblymember Juan Alanis represents the 22
nd
Assembly District, which includes the communities of Modesto, Turlock, Ceres, Denair, Patterson, Gustine, Newman, Hilmar, Ballico, Snelling, Keyes, Grayson, Crows Landing, Diablo Grande, Stevinson, & Empire.