SACRAMENTO – Today, Assemblymember Alanis celebrated the successful passage of the bipartisan Californians Against Retail Theft legislative package, which included his bill, AB 1972. Alanis’ bill is one of seven measures crafted in collaboration with several members of the Assembly under the leadership of Speaker Robert Rivas and the Chairman of the Select Committee on Retail Theft, Assemblymember Rick Zbur, that targets the rise in retail theft. All the bills in the package passed off the floor of the Assembly today including Alanis’ AB 1972.
“This bill is a testament to my commitment of standing with businesses and public safety amidst the increased levels of theft in our state,” said Assemblymember Alanis. “AB 1972 will provide much needed enhancements to the state’s fight against cargo theft. I made a promise when first elected that if there was a pathway to bipartisan solutions on Retail Theft that I would help deliver results. Today, I followed through on that promise.”
AB 1972 aims to bolster the efforts of the California Highway Patrol’s (CHP) property crimes task force by including cargo theft in its scope of responsibilities. This enhancement will significantly strengthen the task force’s capability to investigate and address theft related to cargo, ensuring a more comprehensive approach to combating this type of crime. Moreover, the bill mandates that the CHP extend logistical support and additional law enforcement resources, including personnel and equipment, to railroad police. This provision is designed to foster collaboration and improve the overall effectiveness of efforts to prevent and respond to cargo theft, thereby safeguarding goods and maintaining the integrity of transportation infrastructure in the state.
“I am dedicated to supporting law enforcement by providing the necessary tools to keep our communities safe,” added Alanis. “Laws are ineffective without enforcement resources, so I am committed to combating retail theft and enhancing public safety across California.”
AB 1972 passed the Assembly Floor and will now advance to the Senate for consideration.
Assemblymember Juan Alanis represents the 22
nd
Assembly District, which includes the communities of Modesto, Turlock, Ceres, Denair, Patterson, Gustine, Newman, Hilmar, Ballico, Snelling, Keyes, Grayson, Crows Landing, Diablo Grande, Stevinson, & Empire.