SACRAMENTO—Today, Assemblyman Alanis announced the successful passage of three bills through Assembly policy committees. These public safety and community health measures address the key issues impacting Californians.
“It is long past time to take decisive action to protect and uplift Californians,” said Assemblyman Alanis. “These bills work to foster safer communities and address crucial public health concerns.”
AB 1839 and AB 1954 are two important public safety proposals supporting law enforcement in protecting California’s communities. AB 1839 enhances law enforcement recruitment through grants for modern policing degrees, high school advertising, and hiring incentives. AB 1954 addresses the critical need for community engagement and notification in the placement process of Sexually Violent Predators (SVP). By requiring a higher level of engagement from stakeholders with knowledge of the communities being considered for SVP placement and enhancing notification protocols, this bill ensures that counties have the necessary input and preparation for accommodating SVPs.
“Being a representative of the Central Valley, I understand the unique challenges our communities face,” the Assemblyman added. “I am committed to ensuring the safety and well-being of all Californians. These bills are crucial for ensuring the safety and well-being of residents in our region.”
AB 1996 also works to increase public safety and combat the opioid epidemic by mandating that public entertainment venues, such as stadiums and amusement parks, make naloxone hydrochloride, and other opioid antagonists, readily available. Additionally, the bill mandates the Department of Public Health to develop and administer an opioid overdose training toolkit tailored for these venues.
All three bills will now advance to the Assembly Appropriations Committee for consideration.
Assemblymember Juan Alanis represents the 22
nd
Assembly District, which includes the communities of Modesto, Turlock, Ceres, Denair, Patterson, Gustine, Newman, Hilmar, Ballico, Snelling, Keyes, Grayson, Crows Landing, Diablo Grande, Stevinson, & Empire.