AB 595 will require 72-hour public notice before an adoptable pet can be euthanized

SACRAMENTO, Calif., February 10, 2023
– Today
Assemblyman Bill Essayli
announced
Bowie’s Law
, Assembly Bill 595, which will save pets from euthanasia by requiring 72-hour public notice before a pet can be euthanized. AB 595 will also commission a statewide study to provide data on our overcrowding at animal shelters to develop additional, comprehensive strategies to help stop unnecessary euthanasia.
“Every adoptable pet deserves the chance to find a loving home. Unfortunately, far too often, perfectly healthy, loving animals are euthanized before they have a chance to be adopted. Last year an innocent puppy named Bowie was wrongfully euthanized, and AB 595, Bowie’s Law, would have prevented this tragedy from occurring,” remarked
Assemblyman Essayli
“Some shelters give notice, some give very little notice, and some give no notice at all. Bowie’s Law will end the inconsistency. Our goal is to make every shelter in the state a no kill shelter, and the state study required by this bill will build the foundation for our mission. We understand it’s a complex issue and it’s going to take multiple strategies and partnerships, but Bowie’s Law will be a critical first step,” added
Assemblyman Essayli
Last year,
a puppy named Bowie was suddenly euthanized
at a Los Angeles County animal shelter, even after he was selected for adoption by a rescue. Today’s press conference featured
Shoshi Gamliel
, Owner of
Underdog Heroes Rescue
, the rescue that tried to rescue Bowie last year before he was tragically, suddenly euthanized.
Asm. Essayli
was also joined by his rescue Husky,
Zoey
CLICK HERE
to view the entire press conference.
AB 595 (Essayli)
awaits referral by the Assembly Rules Committee, and will receive its policy committee hearing in the coming months.
Assemblyman Bill Essayli represents the 63rd Assembly District in the California Legislature, which includes the whole cities of Norco, Menifee, Lake Elsinore, and Canyon Lake, as well as portions of the cities of Eastvale, Riverside, and Corona.