SACRAMENTO – Assembly Republicans joined with law enforcement officials from around the state today to announce legislation to stop the wave of crime hurting Californians’ quality of life. With violent crime increasing 6% in a year and high-profile property crimes shaking people’s sense of safety, California needs a new direction to protect and enhance public safety.
“It was an honor to gather with law enforcement leaders who work hard every day to make our communities a safer place to live,” said Assembly Republican Leader James Gallagher (Yuba City). “For too long, the policies from Sacramento have made their jobs harder. With the common-sense reforms we announced today, California can stop the recent crime spree and make our state a safe place to live again.”
Speakers at the event announced proposals to:
Repeal Prop. 47
Increase penalties for serial shoplifters
Increase information sharing between state and local law enforcement to get illegal guns off the streets
Restrict judges from dismissing firearms enhancements
Restore “10-20-Life” enhancements for violent felonies committed with guns
Bring transparency to the good conduct credit program for state prisoners
Give victims a voice at court proceedings in their cases
Improve domestic violence survivors’ awareness of resources and services to help them recover.
Law enforcement officials in attendance included Chief Larry Gonzalez of the Riverside Police Department, Chief Bob Newman of the Corona Police Department, Chief Joe DelGuidice of Riverside County District Attorney Bureau of Investigation, Yuba County District Attorney Clint Curry, Yuba County Sheriff Wendell Anderson, Sutter County District Attorney Jennifer Dupré, and Sutter County Sheriff Brandon Barnes.
Lawmakers in attendance included Assemblymembers Bill Essayli (R-Riverside), Juan Alanis (R-Modesto), Laurie Davies (R-Laguna Niguel), Tri Ta (R-Westminster), Diane Dixon (R-Newport Beach), Joe Patterson (R-Fresno), Josh Hoover (R-Folsom), Kate Sanchez (R-Ranch Santa Margarita), Megan Dahle (R-Bieber), Tom Lackey (R-Palmdale), Heath Flora (R-Ripon), and Devon Mathis (R-Visalia).
CLICK HERE
to watch the livestream video of the press conference.
CLICK HERE
for a summary of each of the legislative solutions announced today.