The City of Visalia declared a local State of Emergency amidst the recent storms. More rain is expected in the coming week. While no evacuations are anticipated at this time, the City of Visalia is urging residents to be mindful of possible changing conditions, today and, in the coming week.

Assemblyman Vince Fong, Mayor Brian Poochigian and County Supervisors asked residents to take precautions and be prepared.

“Now is the time to be proactive and get your families and household ready for flooding,” said Assemblyman Vince Fong (R-Central Valley). “Please take these warnings seriously and stay informed.”

Visalia Mayor Brian Poochigian said, “We are more optimistic about the Army Corps of Engineers’ latest outlook of the water flows. We want residents to be vigilant and prepared. We want everyone to be safe.”

“Be ready by staying informed. Have a plan in place and lend a hand when and where you can,” Supervisor Amy Shuklian of Tulare County District 3 stated.

Residents are encouraged to err on the side of caution. The City of Visalia is being proactive and making plans as conditions can change.

Supervisor Larry Micari, who represents District 1 emphasized, “Get the word out, call your family and friends. Let’s give everyone the opportunity to be as prepared as possible.”

The Emergency Operations Center has been activated on a limited basis. All city departments are working with the county and local agencies to identify shelters and create evacuation plans.

Supervisor Eddie Valero of Tulare County District 4 stated, “Resources are out there for those in need, please sign up for the various alert systems and follow County social media to stay up to date.”

Residents are advised to sign up to receive emergency notices.

To receive immediate updates within the City of Visalia, sign up for text alerts by texting “VISALIA” to +18447137830. To receive text alerts in Spanish, TEXT “ESPANOL” to +18447137830.

To receive updates about other areas of Tulare County, please sign up online:

https://alerttc.com/?fbclid=IwAR3S1k1cVLjksz1Cy4DL1DTqWOWSD8FsRn-1LTPiwG1ZIcVs7VvExeF69KI

Tulare County visalia.city/emergency https://tularecounty.ca.gov/emergencies/

To report property damage https://tularecounty.ca.gov/emergencies/

Phone number to call for more information 559-802-9791

Facebook CountyofTulare

Twitter @CountyofTulare

# # #

Contact Nghia.Nguyen@asm.ca.gov 916-813-8367

Assemblyman Vince Fong represents the 32 nd Assembly District, which encompasses Kern and Tulare Counties.