SACRAMENTO – This week, as we head into the Memorial Day holiday, Assemblyman Joe Patterson (R-Rocklin) presented Assembly Concurrent Resolution 126 on the Assembly Floor to honor the life and sacrifice of Roseville hero Sergeant Nicole Gee.
With Sergeant Gee’s family present, inside the somber Assembly Chambers at the California State Capitol, ACR 126 passed unanimously off the Assembly Floor and will dedicate a portion of Interstate 80 in Sgt. Gee’s hometown of Roseville, California, between Douglas Boulevard and the junction of State Route 65, as “Nicole Gee Memorial Highway.” The ACR is coauthored by Senator Roger Niello (R-Fair Oaks).
On August 26, 2021, America and the world learned about a devastating suicide bomber attack that took the life of 13 service members during the United States’ withdrawal from Afghanistan. Sgt. Gee was one of those service members. Shortly after the bombing, one of Sgt. Gee’s social media posts of her cradling a small Afghan child with the caption, “I love my job,” circulated like wildfire and became an international symbol of our country’s kindness and goodwill. Sgt. Gee was just 23 years old when she was killed.
Born in Vail, Colorado, and raised in Roseville, California, Sgt. Gee graduated from Oakmont High School with a 4.1 GPA. She entered active duty in the United States Marine Corps in August 2017 and was assigned to Combat Logistics Battalion 24 and deployed with the 24th Marine Expeditionary Unit in February 2021. Her many commendable awards and achievements include the Purple Heart, Combat Action Ribbon, Marine Corps Good Conduct Medal, National Defense Service Medal, Afghanistan Campaign Medal, Global War on Terrorism Service Medal, Sea Service Deployment Ribbon, NATO Medal, and Expert Rifle Qualification Third Award. She was a black belt martial arts instructor, set weightlifting records at Ahmad al-Jaber Air Base, and achieved perfect scores in Combat Fitness Tests.
Patterson was elected to the Assembly in November 2022 and started the process for the highway dedication shortly after.
“By designating a portion of Interstate 80 in Placer County as U.S. Marine Corps Sgt. Gee Memorial Highway we honor Nicole,” said Patterson. “We remember the joy she brought to everyone she knew, the light she was to others all around the world, and we will never forget the sacrifice she made for the people of this nation.”
Assemblyman Joe Patterson represents the 5th Assembly District, including Roseville, Rocklin, Lincoln, Granite Bay, Auburn, North Auburn, Loomis, Meadow Vista, Newcastle, Penryn, El Dorado Hills, Cameron Park, Diamond Springs, Placerville, Shingle Springs, Auburn Lake Trails, Georgetown, Cold Springs, Coloma, Rescue and Cool.