Bipartisan bills to be heard in Assembly Public Safety This Thursday
SACRAMENTO, Calif., April 25, 2023 – Today Assemblyman Bill Essayli joined his Assembly Republican colleagues in urging Governor Newsom to join the strong public support for bipartisan legislation to combat the growing fentanyl crisis.

“Every week, over 100 Californians die from fentanyl poisoning. One pill can kill, and the time for talk is over. We as public servants have a duty to protect the public, and this Thursday the Assembly Public Safety will have the opportunity to pass common sense, bipartisan legislation which will save lives,” said Assemblyman Essayli.

“That’s why today I joined my colleagues in sending a letter to Governor Newsom, urging him to join the growing public support for specific bills up in committee this week to punish the drug dealers behind this fentanyl crisis and prevent future victims,” added Assemblyman Essayli.

The letter urges support for the following bills being heard in the Assembly Public Safety Committee Thursday, April 27:

AB 367 (Brian Maienschein) – add a sentencing enhancement for fentanyl dealers who kill or seriously injure people they sell the drug to.
AB 675 (Esmeralda Soria) – prohibit carrying a gun while in possession of fentanyl.
AB 955 (Cottie Petrie-Norris) – increase penalties for fentanyl dealers who sell on social media.
AB 1058 (Jim Patterson) – increase penalties for those possessing large quantities of fentanyl.
The hearing Thursday comes in the wake of a protest by law enforcement and family members of fentanyl victims frustrated by the committee’s refusal to consider bills on the crisis, and only was announced after Assembly Republicans publicly announced their plan to force a vote on the proposals by the entire Assembly.
 
In addition to urging the Governor to weigh in, Assembly Republicans are also calling on Californians to demand action from the Public Safety Committee. Committee members can be reached by phone or email; a list of members and their contact information is available here.

Assemblyman Bill Essayli represents the 63rd Assembly District in the California Legislature, which includes the whole cities of Norco, Menifee, Lake Elsinore, and Canyon Lake, as well as portions of the cities of Eastvale, Riverside, and Corona.