IRVINE, CA (October 4, 2024) — Orange County Business Council (OCBC) has announced its 2024 Legislator of the Year—Assemblymember Laurie Davies. Her legislative leadership is being honored for representing Orange County’s business priorities in Sacramento as she scored highest among her peers on the Orange County Business Council 2024 Legislative Scorecard .

OCBC’s annual Legislative Scorecard measures and compares how well Orange County’s elected leaders in the State Legislature aligned with OCBC’s policy priorities, including its core initiatives of economic development, workforce, housing and infrastructure. OCBC identified 20 bills as most critical to Orange County’s business community and regional economy. Assemblymember Davies aligned with OCBC 100% of the time on a total of 16 scoreable votes.

“On behalf of the Orange County Business Council, I want to express our sincere gratitude to our legislators who demonstrated unwavering commitment to supporting business and fostering economic growth during this past legislative cycle,” said Jeff Ball, OCBC’s President & CEO. “Their leadership and dedication are essential to ensuring Orange County continues to thrive as a leading hub for innovation and opportunity. We are especially proud to recognize Assemblywoman Laurie Davies as OCBC’s 2024 Legislator of the Year. Her tireless advocacy for policies that strengthen our business community has been exemplary, and we congratulate her on this well-deserved honor.”

OCBC’s annual Legislative Scorecard is a tool that holds elected officials accountable for how they represent the business sector of the nation’s sixth most populous county. In this most recent legislative cycle, OCBC continued to oppose and advocate for sustainable policies. Of the bills that OCBC opposed, 35% were killed in the legislature or vetoed by the Governor, while 20% of the bills supported by OCBC were signed into law, leading to a 55% overall success rate.

“2024 has been another challenging year for business across the state, with mounting economic pressures and regulatory hurdles,” said Amanda Walsh, Vice President of Government Affairs. “The need for strong, business-friendly legislation has never been more critical, and we’re grateful to Assemblymember Davies and her colleagues for their leadership in protecting the interests of the business community during such a tough year.”

To view the 2024 Orange County Business Council Legislative Scorecard, visit ocbc.org .

October 4, 2024

In the News , Press Release

August 28, 2025

August 20, 2025

July 3, 2025

Related Posts