San Juan Capistrano, CA – On Sunday March 24 th , Assemblywoman Laurie Davies honored the 2024 Women of the Year “Making Herstory” nominees at a reception in San Juan Capistrano. The event recognized the valuable contributions of women from California’s 74th Assembly District, celebrating their dedication and impact within their communities. The nominees recognized were:

Maria Elena Banks, Dana Point – Past President of the Orange County Association of REALTORS, Past Vice President of Fundraising for UCI Medical, recognized for her involvement in local business and community initiatives.

Leanna Bradshaw, Laguna Niguel – Community Organizer, recognized for her role in supporting local events like the Swallows Day Parade and Taste of San Juan.

Marla Berman-Balmuth, San Clemente – Pregnancy Resource Advocate, recognized for providing pregnancy resources and support within the community.

Jacqueline DuPont, San Clemente – Board Member for the Alzheimer’s Association of Orange County, the Illumination Foundation, and UCI Mind, recognized for her service to the Alzheimer’s community and advocacy for seniors.

Susan Goggins, San Clemente – Executive Director at the San Onofre Foundation, recognized for her environmental leadership and community service.

Barbara Force Johannes, Dana Point – President, Dana Point Historical Society, recognized for her leadership and dedication to preserving Dana Point’s rich history.

Cindi Juncal, San Clemente – Founder of The Noble Path Foundation, recognized for her commitment to youth service and educational programs.

Susie Lantz, San Clemente – CEO of the San Clemente Chamber of Commerce, recognized for promoting the welfare and prosperity of businesses in San Clemente.

Lucinda Lambros, Dana Point – Chamber of Commerce Leader/Charity Organizer, recognized for her leadership and charitable contributions.

Vicki McMurchie, Dana Point – President, Dana Point Chamber of Commerce, recognized for fostering a vibrant business network and community outreach.

Shani Moslehi, Laguna Niguel – Founder & CEO – OCIACC and LAIACC, recognized for her support of Iranian immigrants.

Jessica Reiter-Flax, San Clemente – Executive Director at GIA and the San Clemente Village, recognized for her contributions to the senior community.

Kelly Rinderknecht, Dana Point – General Manager of The Dana West Marina and Chair Elect for the Dana Point Chamber of Commerce, recognized for her business leadership and community engagement.

Mary Rampone, San Clemente – San Clemente Chamber of Commerce Director/Realtor, recognized for her contributions to the business community.

Jessica Reiter-Flax, San Clemente – Executive Director of San Clemente Village, recognized for her work in senior service.

Debra Schueler, Laguna Niguel – Laguna Niguel Chamber of Commerce Member, and Community Volunteer, recognized for her contributions to the business community in Southern Orange County.

Mary Smith, Laguna Niguel – Businesswoman/Military Advocate, recognized for her service to the community and advocacy for military veterans.

Suzanne Whitlaw, San Clemente – Co-Founder and President of Save Our Beaches SC, recognized for her environmental stewardship and dedication to preserving local beaches .

Among the nominees, a select few were distinguished with category awards for their exceptional dedication and influence.

The Legacy of Leadership and Community Service Award was presented to Mary Smith for her extensive community service and vigorous support for military veterans.

Cindi Juncal received the Community Service to Youth Award , being honored for her dedication to nurturing the potential of the youth through The Noble Path Foundation.

Jacqueline DuPont was recognized with the Community Service to Seniors Award for her empathetic and effective advocacy in the Alzheimer’s community.

The Excellence in Environmental Stewardship Award was bestowed upon Suzanne Whitlaw , acknowledging her passionate commitment to environmental conservation and the well-being of the local coastline.

Finally, the Excellence in Business Award celebrated Mary Ramone’s influential role and unwavering dedication to the local business community and chamber of commerce.

The Woman of the Year event was founded in 1987 by Assemblywoman Bev Hansen (R) and Assemblywoman Sally Tanner (D), who noticed that the California Legislature had no events planned for the month of March, Women’s History Month.  In celebration of the contributions to society made by remarkable women throughout California, Hansen and Tanner arranged to invite one woman from each Senate and Assembly district to be honored for their accomplishments. This yearly event, sponsored and organized by the Women’s Caucus, is greatly anticipated by all Legislators today.

The celebration was held Sunday afternoon at The Tea House on Los Rios in San Juan Capistrano. The Woman of the Year event is sponsored by the California Women’s Caucus and is not held at taxpayer expense.

###

March 24, 2024

Press Release

August 20, 2025

May 27, 2025

May 9, 2025

Related Posts