LAGUNA BEACH (June 5, 2024) – On Saturday, Assemblymember Diane Dixon (R-Newport Beach) will celebrate World Oceans Day at KelpFest.

KelpFest, which honors Laguna Beach’s beautiful coastal shoreline, resources and kelp, is a family-friendly festival that raises awareness and provides information about the ocean. It is hosted by the Laguna Ocean Foundation and starts at 10 a.m. at Main Beach in Laguna Beach.

“I am looking forward to participating in KelpFest and opening the day with some exciting news about my legislative efforts to name the State’s first seashell,” said Assemblymember Dixon.

In addition to the State Seashell, Assemblymember Dixon will share information on her legislative efforts to stop ocean pollution. She started the San Gabriel River Working Group earlier this year to help find solutions and funding to prevent trash from littering Seal Beach and the Pacific Ocean. Additionally, the Assemblymember is working with The Ocean Clean Up, an international non-profit committed to removing plastic caught in the Great Pacific Garbage Patch. Their innovative technology, The Interceptor, focuses on pulling plastic and trash out of rivers before reaching the ocean. According to The Ocean Clean Up, rivers are the primary origin of plastic pollution that enters the ocean.

“I am proud to represent a large part of the coastline in Southern California, and it is imperative we find solutions to clean the ocean for future generations,” said Assemblymember Dixon. “Recognizing World Oceans Day on June 8 is an excellent way to encourage Californians to take action to protect our valuable natural resources.”

On Monday, June 10, the Assemblymember will be presenting Assembly Concurrent Resolution 182 on the Assembly Floor to honor World Oceans Day by committing the State Legislature to keep our coastlines clean and trash free, and eliminate the Great Pacific Garbage Patch. You can livestream the presentation here Monday afternoon: https://www.assembly.ca.gov/schedules-publications/todays-events

To further highlight reducing ocean pollution, Assemblymember Dixon will additionally be starting a working group to help address the Great Pacific Garbage Patch. Constituents interested in joining these coastline efforts with Assemblymember Dixon should contact the District Office at 949-798-7221 or Assemblymember.Dixon@assembly.ca.gov .