ORANGE COUNTY
(November 15, 2024) – This month, in honor of Veteran’s Day, Assemblymember Diane Dixon (R-Newport Beach) is honoring several constituents who bravely fought for our country.
“I am honored to recognize three great veterans from Assembly District 72,” said Assemblymember Dixon. “We are very blessed to have so many selfless service members in Orange County. Thank you for your service, gentlemen.”
First Lieutenant Chase Wickersham, of Corona Del Mar, served in the United States Army and was deployed to Vietnam from 1970-1971. Mr. Wickersham has a long history of also serving his community and providing support and advocacy for fellow veterans. He worked for U.S. Vets in Los Angeles as a member of the Board of Directors followed by a role as Senior Vice President of Operations where he was responsible for locations across the nation that provided housing to 2,500 homeless veterans every night. Among other important roles, he launched the Veteran Business Network in Orange County, is a founding member of the Orange County Veterans and Military Families Collaborative and serves on
the Mental Health Services Act Steering Committee. He has also
been on the Orange County Veterans Advisory Council since 2012.
P
hoto courtesy of Bobby McDonald.
Lieutenant Colonel Don Nguyen, of Huntington Beach, is a
disable
d combat veteran who served in the United States Air Force for 27 years. Mr.
Nguyen came to America as a refugee immigrant in 1979 from the Vietnam War. He served in the 1991 Persian Gulf War during Operations Desert Storm and Desert Shield. He was also twice deployed to combat in 2009-2010 to Iraq for Operation Iraqi Freedom before retiring in 2014. He has been a valued member of the Orange County community, having volunteered more than 200 hours with the local American Red Cross, more than 1100 hours assisting the U.S. Coast Guard, in addition to other emergency preparedness programs.
Photo courtesy of his spouse, Huyen Vu.
Captain Gary Barnhill, of Newport Beach, is a retired Air Force fighter pilot of 11 years who served in Vietnam. Specifically, he flew the F-105 Thunderchief in 1965 during Rolling Thunder. After his service his resume includes the CIA, Trans World Airlines and air show pilot. He additionally was a founder of a B-747 pilot leasing firm. Importantly, Mr. Barnhill is part of the nonprofit Freedom Committee of Orange County which is responsible for capturing and sharing stories from all generations to students through their “Living History” stories from veterans.
Photo courtesy of Gary Barnhill.
Assemblymember Dixon will be honoring Mr. Wickersham, Mr. Nguyen and Mr. Barnhill in a private ceremony at her District Office with their families.