SACRAMENTO, CA –
Assemblymember Greg Wallis introduced legislation to name a portion of the I-10 freeway in honor of the three men lost in the tragic 2023 Broadway Wildland Fire helicopter crash. The stretch of freeway near Cabazon will honor Cal Fire Assistant Chief Josh Bischof, Cal Fire Captain Tim Rodriguez and helicopter pilot Tony Sousa.
ACR 37
is jointly authored by Assemblymembers James Gallagher, Dr. Corey Jackson and Bill Essayli who represent the districts in which each of these men resided. The bill, ACR 37, recognizes three men who made the ultimate sacrifice in service of our community.
“Every day firefighters put their lives on the line to keep us safe and face obstacles many of us would find insurmountable. Assistant Chief Josh Bischof, Captain Tim Rodriguez, and Pilot Tony Sousa spent their careers serving all Californians, and with this honor, we will always remember them” said Assemblymember Wallis.
Assemblymember Bill Essayli said, “Assistant Chief Josh Bischof was successful at everything he put his mind to. His love for firefighting, aviation and adventure showed in his life serving others. Overseeing multiple area of training within Cal Fire, Chief Bischof’s willingness to help others and legacy of service represents the best of the 63rd Assembly District.”
“Captain Tim Rodriguez was a dedicated community leader who grew up in the heart of the 60
th
Assembly District. He had a lifelong commitment to service, from his beginnings in the city of Hemet. His journey carried him from Mecca from Temecula where he rose to Fire Captain. Captain Rodriguez left an enduring imprint of professionalism, leadership and humility” said Assemblymember Dr. Corey Jackson.
Assemblymember James Gallagher said, “Tony Sousa was more than an exceptional pilot—he was a hero. As an instructor, he played a vital role in shaping the Cal Fire helicopter training program, ensuring the safety and effectiveness of those who protect our communities. His dedication, courage, and selfless spirit will never be forgotten. Tony’s legacy lives on in the lives he touched and the firefighters he helped train. He will always be remembered for his unwavering commitment, his loving spirit, and his heroism in the face of danger.”
This resolution designates the portion of State Route 10 from the Malki Road undercrossing to the East Cabazon Ramp overcrossing in the County of Riverside as the Assistant Chief Josh Bischof, Captain Tim Rodriguez, and Pilot Tony Sousa Memorial Highway.
###