TURLOCK – Today, Assemblymember Alanis formally recognized 22nd District residents Melody Noceti (Waterford High School) as Educator of the Year and James Peterson (Turlock High School) as Coach of the Year for the 22nd Assembly District for 2023.”I am incredibly impressed by Melody Noceti’s ability to meet students where they are,” said Assemblyman Alanis. “Mrs. Noceti’s story, especially the adversity she persevered through this past year while still delivering the highest quality to her students, is why I selected her as the Educator of the Year.”
Melody Noceti has been an educator for over two decades and boasts an impressive resume in English, Drama, and Social Sciences. Mrs. Noceti has been a profound influence while teaching in any classroom, but she has been extraordinary the last couple of years at Waterford High School, where she spearheaded an on-campus project to facilitate inclusive classroom environments. Melody’s students thrive in the classroom because she has gone out of her way to design in-depth and inclusive coursework that accommodates students regardless of their background. Despite her challenges, her colleagues, administration, and students all praise her dedication to her classes.
“James Peterson sets a remarkable example to our community,” said Alanis. “As both a father and former law enforcement officer, I know how important it is for students to have a strong mentor and be able to pursue their passions at a young age. Coach Peterson is a model coach and a great example of teaching young people the values we care about in our communities.”
James Peterson has coached at Turlock High School since 2003 and assumed the role of Head Football Coach in 2008. During his tenure running Turlock’s football program, Coach Peterson has exemplified the values of hard work and perseverance both on and off the field. In his fifteenth season as Head Coach, James led the Turlock High School Bulldogs to an undefeated championship in the Central California Athletic League for the 2023 season.
James Peterson and Melody Noceti were honored at their respective campuses today with a framed Assembly Resolution to commemorate their fantastic work in the 22nd Assembly District. Nominations were accepted last year with the requirement that those nominated must be a resident of, or work inside of, the 22nd District, and have shown extraordinary character and ethics in their respective bodies of work in 2023.
Assemblymember Juan Alanis represents the 22
nd
Assembly District, which includes the communities of Modesto, Turlock, Ceres, Denair, Patterson, Gustine, Newman, Hilmar, Ballico, Snelling, Keyes, Grayson, Crows Landing, Diablo Grande, Stevinson, & Empire.