Assemblyman Ta Passes Bipartisan Bill Out of Committee to Place Landmark Civil Rights Case in California Textbooks
The historic Mendez v. Westminster case set the precedent for nationwide school desegregation
ORANGE COUNTY—Yesterday, Assemblyman Ta’s bill to ensure California students learn of the landmark civil rights case
Mendez v. Westminster
passed unanimously out of the Assembly Education Committee. This important legislation (AB 1805) would help ensure the
Mendez
case is included in history textbooks for California students.
“It was an honor to present AB 1805 alongside Sylvia Mendez and Sandra Mendez Duran, the children of Gonzalo and Felicitas Mendez,” said Assemblyman Ta. “The bipartisan outpouring of support for this effort was truly humbling, and I look forward to this bill advancing and seeing this important civil rights case taught across California schools.”
In 1943, the children of Gonzalo and Felicitas Mendez were denied entry into the Seventeenth Street School in Westminster, California, because they were Mexican American. The Mendez family challenged this discriminatory policy in court, and their successful lawsuit led to California becoming the first state to end school segregation and set important legal and strategic precedent for
Brown v. Board of Education
, which ended school segregation throughout the entire country.
“Our family is thrilled to see AB 1805 advance out of the Assembly Education Committee,” said Sylvia Mendez and Sandra Mendez Duran. “This important legislation will help students learn the story of
Mendez v. Westminster
and its lasting impact on California and American history. We look forward to AB 1805 becoming law, and appreciate Assemblyman Ta’s leadership on this effort.”
AB 1805 is co-authored by a bipartisan coalition of legislators, and is supported by the California Hispanic Chamber of Commerce, the California Charter Schools Association, the California State PTA, the California Federation of Teachers, and a number of school districts and cities from across the state. The legislation will now advance to the Assembly Appropriations Committee.
###