SACRAMENTO – On Tuesday the Assembly Public Safety Committee approved
Assembly Bill 2045
, legislation authored by Assemblymember Josh Hoover (R-Folsom) to address the alarming rise of fentanyl in California schools and communities. The bill seeks to increase penalties on dealers who target schools and other community venues with deadly fentanyl. It passed with strong bipartisan support on a 7-0 vote.
“By supporting this bill, the Public Safety Committee has chosen to prioritize victims over criminals. Our number one job as lawmakers should be protecting our most vulnerable from harm,” Assemblyman Hoover said. “We must do more as a Legislature to create a safe environment where our children can learn, grow, and thrive. This legislation sends a clear message that those who endanger minors and bring deadly fentanyl into our schools will face severe consequences.”
AB 2045 brings penalties for fentanyl crimes in line with other hard drugs, such as cocaine and heroin. It does this by adding a one year prison enhancement for an adult who solicits, encourages, or intimidates a minor to possess fentanyl on the premises of a religious institution, playground, youth center, day care, or public swimming pool. It also provides a two year prison enhancement for the same crime if the offense occurs within 1,000 feet of a public or private school when children are present.
“We are currently losing over 100 Californians per week to a growing fentanyl crisis,” added Hoover. “Those who distribute this deadly drug in our communities must be held accountable.”
According to the CDC
, fentanyl is 50 times more potent than heroin, 100 times stronger than morphine, and is a major contributor to fatal overdose deaths in the United States. In 2023 alone,
62,224 pounds of fentanyl were seized in California
according to the National Guard. That is a 1066% increase in just 2 years.
Josh Hoover represents Assembly District 7, which includes the cities of Citrus Heights, Folsom, and Rancho Cordova and the unincorporated communities of Carmichael, Fair Oaks, Foothill Farms, Gold River, Mather, McClellan Park, North Highlands, Orangevale, and Rosemont.
####