SACRAMENTO – Today, Assemblymember Alanis officially announced his public safety bill package for the 2024 legislative year.
“I am proud of the work that my team and I are doing to build upon our public safety achievements from last year,” said Alanis. “I am committed to continuing the fight to protect our communities and safe spaces, and I look forward to collaborating with my colleagues on both sides to accomplish tasks for the 22nd Assembly District.”
AB 1839
– Provides incentives to support law enforcement recruitment efforts via grants, advertising and hiring bonuses.
AB 1845
– Supports law enforcement agencies and prosecutors efforts in combatting retail theft with resources to identify, apprehend and prosecute criminals involved in the reselling of stolen property.
AB 1859
– Requires the tracking of deaths associated with xylazine (Tranq) which will assist in identifying trends, allocating resources, maintaining public health, developing evidence-based interventions, and responding effectively to the challenges posed by the misuse of Tranq.
AB 1972
– Expands the definition of California’s organized retail theft statute to include the term “cargo”, giving law enforcement and prosecutors additional tools to protect rail lines and shipping lanes from organized cargo theft.
AB 1996 –
Ensures that employees at entertainment spaces like stadiums and amusement parks are properly trained in the use of life-saving opioid antagonists like Narcan.
ACA 15
– Eliminates the eligibility of inmates convicted of felony sex offenses for early parole.
Additionally, Assemblymember Alanis committed his early support for key public safety measures authored by his legislative colleagues, including:
AB 1804 (Jim Patterson) – Expands warrant searches for fentanyl drug dealers
AB 1772 (Ramos) – Increases penalties for retail theft crimes.
AB 2035 (Joe Patterson) – Prohibits the release of sexually violent predators as transients
SB 21 (Umberg) – Alexandra’s Law: Criminal admonishment for fentanyl crimes
SB 1011 (Jones/Blakespear) – Protects children by prohibiting homeless encampments within 500 feet of a school.
Alanis is continuing to work with leadership on both sides of the aisle on additional public safety legislation for this year as well.
“Needed public safety solutions cannot be kicked to another legislature or delayed for another year,” added Alanis. “I will be working across the aisle, and with anyone who is serious about making people, neighborhoods and businesses safe across our state.”
Assemblymember Juan Alanis represents the 22
nd
Assembly District, which includes the communities of Modesto, Turlock, Ceres, Denair, Patterson, Gustine, Newman, Hilmar, Ballico, Snelling, Keyes, Grayson, Crows Landing, Diablo Grande, Stevinson, & Empire.