Legislation introduced to hold arsonists accountable as California battles record-breaking wildfires and devastating losses.

SACRAMENTO – Amid California’s relentless wildfire crisis,
Assemblywomen Heather Hadwick
(R-Modoc) and
Kate Sanchez
(R-Temecula) have introduced bold legislation to crack down on arsonists with tougher penalties for those who ignite catastrophic fires.
Seven of the ten largest fires in California history have occurred within the last five years, burning a staggering 3.8 million acres. Alarmingly, an
estimated 20 percent
of wildfires are the result of arson, destroying hundreds of thousands of acres across the state. The 2024 Park Fire, which burned over 400,000 acres and destroyed 709 homes in Butte and Tehama counties, was ignited by an arsonist with an
extensive criminal record
. Moreover, arson arrests have significantly increased over the past decade, according to
CalFire
AB 297
would add a sentencing enhancement of three to five years for arsonists whose actions result in the burning of 500 or more acres of forestland.
“As a former county Emergency Manager, I have personally worked on wildfires started by arsonists and have witnessed firsthand the devastation it caused. We need more tools to enforce the law and support our communities and that includes harsher consequences for highly destructive behavior,” said
Assemblywoman Heather Hadwick
“There is zero excuse for arson. These criminals knowingly cause fires that cost people their homes and lives. Our bill provides law enforcement more tools to keep these dangerous arsonists out of our communities,” said
Assemblywoman Kate Sanchez.

Assemblywoman Hadwick represents the 1st Assembly District, which includes portions of El Dorado and Placer counties, along with Alpine, Amador, Lassen, Modoc, Nevada, Plumas, Shasta, Sierra, and Siskiyou counties.
Assemblywoman Sanchez represents the 71st Assembly District, which includes the cities of Mission Viejo, Rancho Santa Margarita, Temecula, Murrieta, Wildomar, and unincorporated areas of French Valley, Temecula Wine Country, and Orange County.