ORANGE COUNTY
(March 7, 2025) – Assemblymember Diane Dixon (R-Newport Beach) is proud to celebrate the opening of Newport Beach’s trash interceptor.
“Today is a great day,” said Assemblymember Dixon. “I have been part of this project since inception, starting over 10 years ago when I served on the Newport Beach City Council and as Chair of the Water Quality Committee.
“I was delighted in 2022 to work through the State Budget process as an Assemblymember to find funds to complete this project. This trash wheel will greatly improve our regional efforts to prevent trash and debris from entering the ocean.”
The Assemblymember is focused on ensuring Orange County remains a beautiful and clean coastal destination for the millions of visitors who make their way to the region’s beaches each year. Assemblymember Dixon is leading efforts for a similar interceptor concept at the North end of the 72nd Assembly District in the San Gabriel River that divides Orange County and Los Angeles County.
The Trash Interceptor, or Newport Bay Pollution Control Project, was installed near the outlet of San Diego Creek, inside the creek itself, and on a landing area adjacent to the creek to capture trash and debris before they enter the Pacific Ocean. The floating platform has a 14-foot steel water wheel powered by the current of the creek. It is secured in place by guide piles designed to withstand storm flows and changes in water surface elevations. The water wheel powers the spring-loaded leaf rakes and conveyor system that pulls floating litter and debris from the creek into a roll-off container. The removal of these pollutants prevents litter and contaminants from reaching the ocean and becoming marine debris, ultimately improving the water quality of the region.
“Our businesses rely on tourism, and marine life relies on a healthy ocean,” said Assemblymember Dixon. “It is a big achievement to invest in projects that make these things possible. These are taxpayer dollars at work to make our community better. I am looking forward to seeing how this trash wheel will make a difference for residents and visitors in my district, in addition to a healthier and cleaner environment for all generations to enjoy.”