Honorees and Families Recognized at Veterans Association of North County

Oceanside, CA – Today Assemblywoman Laurie Davies, representing California’s 74th Assembly District, hosted the 2024 Veteran Service Member Awards at the Veterans Association of North County (VANC). The ceremony recognized the outstanding contributions of local veterans and service members who serve in the community.

The 74th Assembly District, which includes Camp Pendleton, is home to over 18,000 Veterans and Service Members. Unique service and accomplishments were highlighted at the event.

“As Vice Chair of the Military and Veterans Affairs Committee, I am dedicated to representing our veterans’ needs and concerns in Sacramento,” noted Davies. “After service in the military, many veterans, along with their families, continue to give back to their community. These award recipients have gone above and beyond their call of duty and it is important to recognize their continued service.”

The awards and their recipients included:

Youth Leader Achievement Award: Cadet Breaunna Hayes, ROTC

Excellence in the Arts: Steve Dilley, Executive Director of VETART

Excellence in Entrepreneurship: Colonel Dr. Christensen Sicat Hsu, United States Army

Excellence in Advocacy: Captain Armen Kurdian – United States Navy

Excellence in Mentorship: Infantry Operation Chief Juan Laguna, United States Marine Corps

Excellence in Service: Lieutenant Colonel Jamey M. Federico, United States Marine Corps

SanDiegoCountyVeteranVolunteeroftheYear: James(Jim)Pruitt,United States Marine Corps

Orange County Veteran Volunteer of the Year: First Sergeant Nelson A. Coburn, United States Marine Corps

Assemblymember Laurie Davies represents North San Diego County and South Orange County in the California Legislature. The 74th District includes Oceanside, Vista, Camp Pendleton, San Clemente, San Juan Capistrano, Laguna Niguel, and Dana Point.

December 4, 2024

Press Release

August 20, 2025

May 27, 2025

May 9, 2025

Related Posts