SACRAMENTO – In keeping his promise to the people of Stanislaus and Merced counties Assemblymember Juan Alanis delivered five measures to the Governor’s desk before the State Legislature recessed for the year late Thursday night.
“I have a tremendously hard-working staff who cares greatly about our district and our constituents, said Assemblyman Alanis. “Our legislation will provide additional care and protection of our kids, better opportunities for recruitment and retention for our California’s first responders, more efficient and quality training for law enforcement cadets, and protects a historical industry and tradition in our state.”
Specifically, those measures are:
Assembly Bill 243 – Privacy Protection for Child Abduction Victims;
Assembly Bill 255 – Priority College Registration for First Responders;
Assembly Bill 355 – Streaming Rifle Training Standards and Regulations for Peace Officers across the state;
Assembly Bill 1074 – Protections for California’s Horse Racing Industry;
Assembly Bill 1467 – The Neveah Youth Sports Safety Act, which has already been signed into law by Governor Newsom.
It has not gone unnoticed in Sacramento that Assemblyman Alanis has navigated such a large amount of legislation to the Governor’s desk in just his first year.
When asked how he has achieved so many early successes, the Assemblyman said, “You can get a lot done when you take the time to talk with people instead of talking at them. This year, my focus has been on what is best for our district and not for politics or party. Relationships built on trust with colleagues on both sides of the aisle have been the key to our success this year.”
AB 1467 (The Neveah Youth Sports Safety Act) has already been signed and chaptered into law. The remaining four pieces of legislation are now before the Governor for consideration of his signature or veto.
Assemblymember Juan Alanis represents the 22
nd
Assembly District, which includes the communities of Modesto, Turlock, Ceres, Denair, Patterson, Gustine, Newman, Hilmar, Ballico, Snelling, Keyes, Grayson, Crows Landing, Diablo Grande, Stevinson, & Empire.