Oceanside, CA – March 23: Today Assemblywoman Laurie Davies honored local community leader Robbie Calderon Hass as the 74th Assembly District Woman of the Year for 2023. “Robbie has been a proud Oceanside resident for the past 22 years and believes in servant leadership. She gives unconditionally of her time and talents to many organizations. I am beyond honored to award the 74th Assembly District “California Women Making Herstory Award” to this amazing woman,” said Davies. Hass is a successful real estate broker with a very big heart for community service and currently serves on the Board of Directors for seven organizations including the Tri City Medical Center Foundation, Oceanside Chamber of Commerce, Community HousingWorks, the National Association of Hispanic Real Estate Professionals, North San Diego County NAACP, Boys and Girls Club of Oceanside, and North County African American Women’s Association. Additionally, she previously served on the Board of Directors for the Moonlight Cultural Foundation and as a community volunteer with Soroptimist International Oceanside Carlsbad Chapter. Hass stated, “I grew up within a very strict religious Republican family. My dad was a minister and believed in servant leadership before it was a thing. Dad believed in the good of/for the community. He taught me ‘our purpose is to serve mankind.’ One of my favorite quotes that inspires me to volunteer is ‘The joy in life is to be used for purpose. I want to be used up when I die,’ by George Bernard Shaw.” In 2000, Hass first joined the North County African American Women’s Association, which provides scholarships to young women. Her most recent volunteer commitment has been to serve on the Board of Directors for Community Housing Works, a non-profit affordable housing developer dedicated to expanding housing opportunities for working families struggling in an expensive housing market. With her main focus on improving the lives and education of Oceanside youth, Hass was a charter member of the Oceanside Promise Foundation working to ensure every Oceanside student graduates high school and college, ready for a career and a successful life. “Robbie is most deserving of the honor in being named Woman of the Year for 74th Assembly district. Robbie is a past President, current Executive Committee member and Board Member of Boys & Girls Clubs of Oceanside for the last 14 year.” said Jodi Diamond, CEO Oceanside Boys and Girls Club. “Her dedication, devotion and passion for our youth and our community is unwavering. We are so grateful for her commitment to our community and our organization. What an extraordinary honor for an extraordinary woman.” “Robbie is a dedicated member of the leadership team at the Oceanside Chamber of Commerce and we are grateful for all she does to keep our organization and our community moving forward.” remarked Scott Ashton, CEO at Oceanside Chamber of Commerce. Hass is married to Keith Hass, has a daughter Angela and three grandchildren. She attended Cal State Long Beach and Cerritos Community College. The Woman of the Year event was founded in 1987 by Assemblywoman Bev Hansen (R) and Assemblywoman Sally Tanner (D), who noticed that the California Legislature had no events planned for the month of March, Women’s History Month. In celebration of the contributions to society made by remarkable women throughout California, Hansen and Tanner arranged to invite one woman from each Senate and Assembly district to be honored for their accomplishments. This yearly event, sponsored and organized by the Women’s Caucus, is greatly anticipated by all Legislators today. The celebration was held Friday afternoon at Felix’s BBQ with Soul in Oceanside. The Woman of the Year event is sponsored by the California Women’s Caucus and not held at taxpayer expense. ### Assemblymember Laurie Davies represents North San Diego County and South Orange County in the California Legislature. The 74th District includes Oceanside, Vista, Camp Pendleton, San Clemente, San Juan Capistrano, Laguna Niguel, and Dana Point.

March 29, 2023

In the News , Press Release

August 28, 2025

August 20, 2025

July 3, 2025

Related Posts