SACRAMENTO
(March 24, 2025) – Assemblymember Diane Dixon (R-Newport Beach) announces eleven 2025 Women of the Year for the 72nd Assembly District–one woman from each of the eight cities and three women representing district-wide achievement.
“Each of these women has made incredible and significant contributions and has shown exceptional community leadership,” said Assemblymember Dixon. “I commend these women for their dedication and service. We all benefit from having such strong, innovative women in Orange County and Assembly District 72.” To celebrate Women’s History Month, Assemblymember Dixon hosted a reception for each Woman of the Year and her family members to recognize the hard work of each honoree.
Assembly District 72’s District-Wide Women of Distinction:
Jill Dominguez,
President and Executive Director of Mary’s Path, holds a demonstrated record of success developing and managing diverse experienced teams within nonprofit and for-profit companies, foundations, community-based organizations, private-sector lenders, government agencies, and elected officials. Mary’s Path is a licensed short-term residential therapeutic program in Orange County and the sponsor of Assembly Bill 392 (Dixon). Mary’s Path provides care and support to vulnerable teen mothers and their babies within the foster care system.
Perla Mendoza,
founder of Project Eli, has dedicated over 20 years to serving her community in various roles, including street outreach, crisis counseling, educator, disaster relief and as a mental health specialist. Her most important mission in life was to nurture and guide her beautiful son, Elijah. That goal ended on September 16, 2020, when her only child was handed a pharmaceutically-disguised pain pill made of pure Fentanyl. Through Project Eli, Mendoza dedicates community work to drug prevention, education and early intervention.
Leyna Nguyen
is a former CBS news reporter and a current English & Financial Literacy teacher. After retiring from CBS news five years ago, Nguyen started providing free English language lessons and financial literacy classes to her Vietnamese-American community. She continues her philanthropic work with a nonprofit called
Love Across the Ocean (LATO)
that helps connect donors in the US with children in Vietnam, so these children can attend school. LATO also provides humanitarian relief during natural disasters in both the US and Vietnam.
Assembly District 72’s Eight Women of Distinction:
Lieutenant Julia Clasby for Seal Beach
is a transformative leader in law enforcement, dedicated to supporting women in policing and improving working conditions for officers. As the Operations Bureau Lieutenant at the Seal Beach Police Department, she has made history as the Department’s first female lieutenant while reshaping policies to support female officers, particularly those balancing motherhood with their careers. A passionate advocate for women in policing, Lt. Clasby has brought national attention to the “mother cop dilemma,” addressing the unique challenges faced by officers who are also mothers. She has written extensively on the subject, helping redefine policies that allow women to succeed in law enforcement without sacrificing their roles as parents.
Robyne Wood for Huntington Beach (Not Pictured)
is the Founder and Executive Director of Robyne’s Nest, a nonprofit organization dedicated to supporting at-risk and homeless high school students in Orange County. She built the organization from the ground up, designing impactful programs, developing partnerships with local schools, and securing vital funding. Her qualifications and experience stem from a lifelong commitment to serving those in need, beginning with tutoring low-income students in reading and later expanding into extensive volunteer efforts. As a dedicated community advocate, Wood has been actively involved in her children’s schools through PTA leadership and sports booster clubs—where she ensured fundraising supported students in need.
Lori Pack for Newport Beach
is a licensed clinical social worker with over 35 years of experience at Child Guidance Center (CGC). Lori stepped into the role of CEO in 2009. Previously, she served in various roles, including licensed therapist, supervisor, university liaison and clinical director. Her passion and commitment for helping the Orange County community is demonstrated through her leadership and collaboration; ensuring her team is well-trained and supported and always providing the highest quality of innovative and evidence-based care to children and families in need. Lori also participates in numerous community-wide advocacy and awareness efforts to decrease stigmatization and increase access to mental health services for children, adolescents, and families.
Debbie Finster for Laguna Beach (Not Pictured)
is the Vice President of Philanthropy and Community Engagement for the Laguna Beach Pacific Marine Mammal Center. Pacific Marine Mammal Center is a marine mammal hospital leading in veterinary research, STEM education, and ocean conservation efforts. She is a collaborative leader experienced in strategic planning, improving processes, and transforming teams. For more than 30 years, she has worked with organizations, corporations, families, and individuals to match resources with philanthropic solutions that have changed communities and created a positive and lasting impact.
Lauren Becker for Laguna Hills
serves as the Director of the Braille Institute in Laguna Hills, a nonprofit organization that has been transforming lives for over 100 years. The Braille Institute is dedicated to empowering individuals with visual impairments by providing free programs, services, and resources to help them lead enriched, independent lives.  Under Becker’s leadership, the Braille Institute expanded its impact across South Orange County, covering communities of Aliso Viejo, Huntington Beach, Laguna Beach, Laguna Hills, Lake Forest, Seal Beach, Dana Point, Laguna Niguel, San Clemente, San Juan Capistrano, Oceanside, Laguna Beach, Laguna Woods, Newport Beach, Mission Viejo, Lake Forest and Rancho Santa Margarita.
Rebeca Gilad for Laguna Woods
is the Founder and President of Community Bridge Builders. This organization was formed after the Geneva Presbyterian Church shooting and works to break down biases between the various cultures that exist in the area through food, dance and fashion. The group celebrates together with the idea that the more we know about our neighbors, the less animosity can flourish.
Julie Wright for Aliso Viejo
is the Founder and First President of the Aliso Viejo Chamber of Commerce and member of the Events Committee for the Aliso Viejo Community Association. A licensed Realtor and Co-Owner of Help-U-Sell Wright Realtors and Platinum Edge Properties with her husband and Broker Ed Wright, Julie Wright is a leader in her community and has served in many leadership positions throughout various organizations. She was a 2021 Member of the Grievance Committee for the Orange County of Realtors. She was also the 2012 President of Women’s Council of Realtors South Orange County, 2009 Member of the Laguna Niguel Chamber of Commerce and serves as 2024 Secretary on the Board of Directors.
Mary Visconte for Lake Forest
has served her community in many roles, including as Founding Officer of the Lake Forest Chamber of Commerce, first female President of the Lake Forest Chamber of Commerce and the current Lake Forest Chamber of Commerce CEO. Visconte is also the co-owner of Spectrum Specialties & Awards with her mother Connie. She has continuously helped her clients brand themselves effectively by developing their marketing mix in order to reinforce their brand image. Her clients include: Mazda, Del Taco, OC Fair, CoreLogic, TIG, KabaFusion, Orange County Realtors, & ServiceMaster just to name a few.