SACRAMENTO – Earlier today, Assembly Republicans joined law enforcement leaders and victims’ rights advocates to call for swift and decisive action to address the public safety challenges facing California.
Assembly Republicans are committed to fully funding drug treatment programs to implement Prop 36, cracking down on human trafficking, supporting crime victims and their families, fighting addiction and drug trafficking, stopping sexual and domestic violence and improving safety on the roads. Attendees also spoke out against dangerous proposals from legislative Democrats to limit Californians’ right to self-defense and to overturn the sentences of numerous murderers serving life without parole.
“The people of California have spoken loud and clear – they want safe communities and they want leaders who will stand up for law and order,”
said
Assembly Republican Leader James Gallagher
“Democrats’ soft-on-crime policies have endangered families and emboldened criminals. We will not stand idly by while our neighborhoods suffer. Assembly Republicans are taking action to restore public safety and protect Californians.”
“Time and again, the supermajority has stalled, ignored or outright rejected common-sense reforms, prioritizing politics over public safety. But with the passage of Prop 36, the people have delivered a clear and undeniable message: they reject the supermajority’s failed policies that have made our communities less safe,”
said
Assemblyman
Tom Lackey
, who serves on the Public Safety Committee.
“Public safety should not be a partisan issue – it is a fundamental responsibility.”
Other attendees at the event included Riverside County Sheriff
Chad Bianco,
Yolo County District Attorney
Jeff Reisig,
Placer County District Attorney
Morgan Gire,
California District Attorneys Association CEO
Greg Totten,
Placer County Supervisor
Anthony DeMattei,
Crime Victims United President
Topo Padilla
, and Assemblymembers
Leticia Castillo
(R-Corona),
Laurie Davies
(R-Laguna Niguel),
Diane Dixon
(R-Newport Beach),
Stan Ellis
(R-Bakersfield),
Jeff Gonzalez
(R-Indio),
Josh Hoover
(R-Folsom),
Tom Lackey
(R-Palmdale),
Alexandra Macedo
(R-Tulare),
Kate Sanchez
(R-Rancho Santa Margarita),
Tri Ta
(R-Westminster),
David Tangipa
(R-Clovis) and
Greg Wallis
(R-Bermuda Dunes).
For more information on the proposed legislation,
click here
###