SACRAMENTO – Last week, Assembly Republican Leader James Gallagher (Yuba City), Assemblywoman Diane Dixon (R-Newport Beach) and Assemblyman Joe Patterson (R-Rocklin) traveled to the U.S.-Mexico border to discuss human trafficking and the fentanyl epidemic with border security officials.
During the trip, lawmakers met with Border Patrol staff to discuss challenges faced by their agents and what can be done at the state level to help with border security. Solutions included the deployment of additional National Guard members to help the Border Patrol, allowing more cooperation between state and federal officials by repealing California’s sanctuary state law, and bringing down the cost of living to address one of their biggest recruitment challenges.
Traffickers see California as an easy target because our Democrat leaders refuse to implement real solutions that could secure the border
,” said
Gallagher
. “
While Democrats insist they’re serious about border security, their actions tell a different story. From an undersized National Guard deployment to their sanctuary state law that protects criminal illegal immigrants, Democrats have shown they won’t lift a finger to stem the flow of trafficking victims and drugs across the border
Public safety starts at the California border
,” said
Asm. Dixon
. “
Having an opportunity to witness what the US Border Patrol and Homeland Security face on a daily basis was incredibly eye opening. They screen more than 100,000 entries daily when it comes to drugs, fentanyl, human trafficking and crime. Despite lacking significant resources, they work hard to hold the line when it comes to keeping our communities safe
Later, Customs and Border Protection officers took the group on a tour of the San Ysidro Port of Entry to learn about the screening process for travelers and efforts to disrupt human trafficking and drug smuggling operations.
We know that fentanyl is coming across the border
,” said
Asm. Patterson
. “
Our sanctuary state policies create a sick incentive for people to use border crossings in California to traffic this poison into our communities. We need to allow local law enforcement to aid the border patrol for the purposes of saving lives in our communities
California must do more to help Border Patrol apprehend migrants, reduce illegal crossings. We urge Capitol Democrats to work with us in taking more serious steps to restore sanity at the border.
###