MODESTO – Today, Assemblymember Alanis formally recognized Keryn Whitlow as Nurse of the Year and Lynelle Solomon as Volunteer of the Year within California’s 22nd Assembly District.
“Keryn Whitlow exemplifies the heart of nursing, seamlessly blending her expertise with unwavering compassion,” said Assemblyman Alanis. “Her dedication to oncology nursing, community advocacy, and leadership makes her a shining example of excellence in healthcare. She proves that hard-working people can still participate in community leadership and make a significant difference.”
Keryn Whitlow has been a registered oncology nurse since 2014 and became a Shift Manager of the Oncology/Stroke/Telemetry Unit at Doctors Medical Center in 2018. Mrs. Whitlow is a passionate leader who volunteers to improve the community’s health. In her nursing and volunteer work, Keryn has aimed to empower individuals who may be powerless in their current circumstances by educating them on how to amplify their voices to decision-makers.
“Lynelle Solomon is an unwavering force of compassion, and looking into the root cause of homelessness reflects her profound commitment to making real change,” said Alanis. “Ms. Solomon is a testament to the transformative power of community service, making the world a brighter, more compassionate place. Her voice must continue to be heard by local, state, and federal leaders alike.”
Lynelle Solomon was recognized as Volunteer of the Year for her years of supporting the homeless population within the community. Lynelle started her volunteer efforts as the Treasurer of American Veterans First. Mrs. Solomon now focuses her volunteer efforts on making as big of a difference in the lives of people experiencing homelessness in our community as possible.
Keryn Whitlow and Lynelle Solomon were each honored with a framed Assembly Resolution to commemorate their essential work across the 22nd Assembly District. Nominations were accepted last year with the requirement that those nominated must be a resident of, or work inside of, the 22nd District and have shown extraordinary character and ethics in their respective bodies of work in 2023.
Assemblymember Juan Alanis represents the 22
nd
Assembly District, which includes the communities of Modesto, Turlock, Ceres, Denair, Patterson, Gustine, Newman, Hilmar, Ballico, Snelling, Keyes, Grayson, Crows Landing, Diablo Grande, Stevinson, & Empire.