WATERFORD – Tonight Assemblymember Alanis presented a framed copy of AB 1467 to the family of Nevaeh Johnson in a touching tribute before the kickoff of the “Black & Blue Bowl” youth football game between her hometown of Waterford and their next town over rival Hughson.
“This is a solemn moment to honor an extraordinary young woman after a tragedy took place on this very campus a year ago,” said Assemblyman Alanis. “Nevaeh’s name will live on forever enshrined in a law that will ensure kids playing sports all over California will have lifesaving tools regardless of where they are playing.”
Nevaeh’s mother, Tiana Lamunyon, received the framed copy of the bill in her daughter’s name.
“I know that Nevaeh Grace is smiling down on us today,” said Nevaeh’s mother, Tiana. “I am incredibly honored and grateful that this bill passed, but I still feel the huge sorrow and loss that brought us here. I hope this bill will help save someone else’s child and prevent other parents from feeling the pain of losing a child. I know my daughter would have fought for change, so that is exactly why we pushed this law in her place. Thank you to Juan Alanis and his team for fighting for this and those who have supported this bill.”
AB 1467 requires youth sports organizations across the state to provide their athletes with accessibility to an automated external defibrillator (AED) during official practices or matches. Nevaeh, who was 10 years old, collapsed during a sports practice in Waterford in August 2022. Coaches were unaware she was suffering a brain aneurysm, and her heart had stopped. She tragically passed away a few days later, and her family believes that if an AED was accessible at the time, she would still be here today.
“When Nevaeh’s family came to my office in December and asked us to author a law in Nevaeh’s name, I was honored to say yes,” added Alanis. “As a father and grandfather myself, I cannot express how proud and honored I am to present this fitting tribute for Nevaeh.”
Assemblymember Alanis was joined by Nevaeh Johnson’s mother, Tiana, and several family members. Also in attendance were Waterford’s Mayor Charlie Goeken, Waterford City Councilmembers Jill Kitchens and Christine Harris, President of the Waterford Youth Football and Cheer Program Kristen Roberts, Waterford High School Principal James Stotlar, and the many players and cheerleaders that would have been teammates with Nevaeh this year.
Assemblymember Juan Alanis represents the 22
nd
Assembly District, which includes the communities of Modesto, Turlock, Ceres, Denair, Patterson, Gustine, Newman, Hilmar, Ballico, Snelling, Keyes, Grayson, Crows Landing, Diablo Grande, Stevinson, & Empire.