SACRAMENTO –
Assembly Republican Leader James Gallagher
(Yuba City) is pleased to announce that he has secured $1 million in the state budget to support Habitat for Humanity of Butte County’s housing projects. The funding will play a significant role in supporting two vital projects led by Habitat for Humanity of Butte County.
The first initiative, known as the “Boucher Project” in Chico, aims to establish five affordable single-family Habitat homes and one Accessory Dwelling Unit within an existing neighborhood. This collaborative effort with the City of Chico focuses on in-fill projects, with a priority given to Camp Fire survivors, who are in urgent need of stable housing. Additionally, the funding will contribute to the “Habitat Rebuilds in Paradise Project.” This ambitious initiative sets a goal to construct 10 homes per year for the next 10-15 years in Paradise. By providing safe and affordable housing options, this project aims to help the community recover and rebuild in the aftermath of the devastating fire.
Jenny Fales, Development Manager for Habitat for Humanity of Butte County
, expressed deep appreciation for the support, stating, “
We are tremendously grateful to Assemblyman Gallagher for his work in securing $1 million in state funding to support Habitat for Humanity of Butte County’s work. This funding will play a crucial role in our mission to provide safe and affordable housing options for families in Chico and Paradise, with a focus on those who have endured the challenges of the Camp Fire. Assemblymember Gallagher’s support enables us to continue our vital work of rebuilding communities and offering hope and stability to those in need.
State support for these projects is essential in addressing the pressing need for low-income housing and assisting Habitat for Humanity of Butte County in building their construction capacity. Without additional funding, construction would be significantly delayed, hindering Habitat’s ability to meet its ambitious goals for these communities.
I look forward to continuing to collaborate with Habitat for Humanity as we actively work to rebuild and revitalize our communities. I remain committed to addressing housing needs and supporting the recovery efforts in our community
,” said
Assemblyman Gallagher
###