SACRAMENTO – Assemblymember Juan Alanis celebrated the defeat of SB 94, a bill that would have further reduced sentences for the most heinous of crimes, including those who were sentenced for capital crimes to life without parole.
“Victims of the worst crimes have the right to justice,” said Assemblyman Alanis. “The families that have had a loved one murdered, or a victim of violent rape should not be traumatized again by having their murderer’s or predator’s sentence reduced after already having the closure of our justice system. While I believe in rehabilitation, some criminals are too dangerous to be released back into our communities and neighborhoods.”
The defeat of SB 94 caps off a list of several bills Alanis prioritized to help defeat as Vice Chair of the Assembly Public Safety Committee. Specifically, those measures were:
Senate Bill 50 – Vehicles enforcement;
(Would have taken necessary tools away from Law Enforcement to find stolen vehicles and wanted criminals driving on our streets)
Senate Bill 94 – Recall and resentencing;
(Would have further reduced sentences for convicted criminals, including those sentenced to life without parole)
Assembly Bill 93 – Criminal procedure: consensual searches;
(Would have made Law Enforcement Officers’ jobs even less safe while trying to protect communities)
Assembly Bill 742 – Law enforcement: police canines;
(Would have virtually ended using Police K-9 units to apprehend criminals and protect the public.)
Assembly Bill 1028 – Reporting of crimes: mandated reporters;
(Would have reduced the obligations of mandated reporters, such as healthcare workers reporting injuries associated with abuse and other crimes to Law Enforcement)
Assembly Bill 1310 – Recall and resentencing;
(Would allow criminals who used a firearm while committing a crime to petition to be released early)
“Working across the aisle to help try and defeat bills detrimental to public safety is something I take very seriously,” added Alanis. “It takes a lot of trust and discussion with colleagues from both parties. While we did not win every time, I have worked hard on bipartisan efforts to pass and block legislation all year. I think California Republicans have been particularly effective in driving Public Safety victories this year.”
Bills held in committee or defeated on the floor can return next year when the Legislature reconvenes on January 3rd, 2023. However, all six listed measures are dead for the rest of this year.
Assemblymember Juan Alanis represents the 22
nd
Assembly District, which includes the communities of Modesto, Turlock, Ceres, Denair, Patterson, Gustine, Newman, Hilmar, Ballico, Snelling, Keyes, Grayson, Crows Landing, Diablo Grande, Stevinson, & Empire.