Assemblyman Tri Ta’s Resolution Designating
“Surf City USA” Interchange
Advances to the Assembly Floor
Assembly Concurrent Resolution 87 will designate the interchange at Interstate 405 and
Beach Boulevard as the “Surf City USA” Interchange
ORANGE COUNTY—To wrap up Clean Beaches Week, Assemblyman Tri Ta announced that his resolution recognizing Huntington Beach’s surf and beach culture,
ACR 87
, has received unanimous support in the Assembly Transportation Committee and will advance to the Assembly Floor next week.
“It is my honor to carry this resolution to celebrate Huntington Beach’s surf and beach culture, especially during Clean Beaches Week,” said Assemblyman Ta. “I am proud to represent a portion of Huntington Beach in the State Assembly and to play a role in recognizing the more than 100 years of surfing history and 10 miles of coastline that truly make Huntington Beach ‘Surf City USA,’” he added.
ACR 87 will designate the interchange at State Route 39 at Beach Boulevard and Interstate 405 as the “Surf City USA” Interchange to pay tribute to Huntington Beach’s official nickname. The resolution is co-sponsored by a bipartisan coalition of Orange County legislators, and is supported by Visit HB, the official tourism bureau in Huntington Beach.
In their support letter, Visit HB writes, “[d]esignating the interchange at the 405 and Beach Boulevard would have an easily identifiable landmark to navigate to the city’s beaches and tourist attractions thereby enhancing the visitor experience.  It will serve as a reminder that Huntington Beach, with its surfing heritage and vibrant beach culture, is unique in the outsized role the community plays in driving visitors to experience the Southern California beach lifestyle.”
“I look forward to this resolution quickly passing the Legislature, and to soon after proudly drive by signs that say ‘Surf City USA,’—a welcomed tribute of our love for Huntington Beach,” concluded Assemblyman Ta.
###
Assemblyman Tri Ta represents northwest Orange County in the California Legislature.  The 70
th
District includes Fountain Valley, Garden Grove, Los Alamitos, Midway City, Rossmoor, Stanton, Westminster and portions of Huntington Beach, Santa Ana and Seal Beach.