SACRAMENTO
(January 31, 2024) – This week, Assemblymember Diane Dixon (R-Newport Beach) introduced AB 349, which seeks to increase support for infants parented by foster youth by adjusting it by the California Necessities Index (CNI).
“Last year, we introduced AB 1952 to increase the infant supplement formula, a vital monthly payment for parenting foster youth that has not been increased since 2016 and does not increase with inflation. Our foster children are an extremely vulnerable part of our population; some of whom are survivors of human trafficking resulting in pregnancies,” said Assemblymember Dixon. “We must provide them with more support than they are currently receiving.”
The bill is sponsored by Mary’s Path, a licensed short-term residential therapeutic program in Orange County. Mary’s Path provides care and support to vulnerable teen mothers and their babies within the foster care system. They are only one of four residences in California that serve this population.
The additional funding will support organizations like Mary’s Path to afford infant needs, such as diapers and formula, so the pregnant or parenting foster youth can focus on building bonds with their babies, their education, and their own path to healing.
“Our job at Mary’s Path is to care for both the teen mothers that come through our doors and their babies. Our moms have dealt with significant trauma from sex trafficking, domestic violence and other forms of abuse. We give them support, mental health treatment and help them learn how to care for their babies,” said Jill Dominguez, President and Executive Director. “But the cost of caring for those babies just keeps going up. Diapers, formula and other baby supplies keep getting more expensive while the State’s support has fallen way behind. That needs to change so we can keep providing high quality care and keep these young families together.”
Statistics highlight that almost 19% of parenting-foster-youth lose their child to the same system they themselves were in, the foster care system. These tragedies can be avoided with ample funding to core programs such as the infant supplement formula.