Bills introduced will increase accountability, help victims, and prevent wildfires.

SACRAMENTO – Today,
Assemblywoman Heather Hadwick
(R-Alturas) introduced several bills aimed at strengthening California’s response to wildfires. With wildfires growing more devastating each year, Hadwick’s proposals focus on enhancing disaster relief, promoting proactive fire prevention, and ensuring that taxpayer dollars are spent effectively on wildfire mitigation and recovery efforts. The package includes measures to protect victims, support vital fuel reduction projects, and ensure accountability in wildfire funding, taking a crucial step toward addressing the state’s wildfire crisis.
AB 297:
Increases penalties for arson.
Assemblymember Sanchez is a joint author.
AB 429
: Exempts wildfire payments from income tax and allows victims of the 2021 Dixie Fire, the 2022 Mill Fire, and the 2024 Park Fire to receive the full payment they are owed.
Assemblymember Lackey and Senator Dahle are co-authors
AB 438:
Allows local Office of Emergency Services (OES) vehicles to be authorized emergency vehicles and drive Code 3 to expedite evacuation orders and provide immediate assistance.
AB 441
: Prevents the California Wildfire Mitigation Program from being eliminated so working families can continue fortifying their homes against fires.
AB 442
: Creates a California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) exemption for wildfire projects in communities that have one ingress/egress route.
Assemblymember Tangipa is a co-author.
“As California faces an unprecedented wildfire season, we must do more to protect our communities, the people who live in them, and our natural resources,” said
Assemblywoman Hadwick
. “These bills represent a proactive approach to wildfire prevention, recovery, and accountability. We must protect our fire-threatened communities.”
The legislation is expected to undergo hearings in the state Assembly in the coming weeks. Track the progress of these bills
here

Assemblywoman Hadwick represents the 1st Assembly District, which includes portions of El Dorado and Placer counties, along with Alpine, Amador, Lassen, Modoc, Nevada, Plumas, Shasta, Sierra, and Siskiyou counties.