Assemblyman Tri Ta Announces Legislation on Regional Approach to Homelessness Signed into Law
Today, Assemblyman Tri Ta announced that the Governor signed AB 1782 to allow cities to more effectively construct and operate regional homeless shelters and fund homeless prevention programs.
ORANGE COUNTY—Today, Assemblyman Tri Ta announced that Governor Newsom signed
AB 1782
.  When it goes into effect on January 1, 2025, cities can more easily pull funds from existing affordable housing monies to help fund the construction and operation of regional homeless shelters and homeless prevention programs.
“I am grateful to the Governor for sharing my vision regarding this area of law,” said Assemblyman Ta.  “After the cities of Fountain Valley, Garden Grove, and Westminster came to me with this issue, I was pleased to carry this bill.  When it comes to resolving the homeless crisis in California, we need a holistic and innovative approach while also treating everyone with dignity.  This legislation makes a bold step in that direction,” concluded Ta.
“The City of Fountain Valley would like to convey our appreciation to Assemblyman Tri Ta for authoring AB 1782 and to Governor Newsom for signing the legislation into law.  The Cities of Fountain Valley, Garden Grove, and Westminster in conjunction with the County of Orange, have taken on the responsibility of constructing and operating a navigation center to assist our unhoused populations; managing to do so with limited local tax dollars.  We are not alone in these efforts and AB 1782 recognizes the need to allow greater use of Low and Moderate Income Housing Asset Funds (LMIHAF) to serve the needs of the unhoused and preserve the quality of life for our communities,” stated Fountain Valley Mayor, Glenn Grandis.
“The City of Westminster applauds Assembly Member Ta’s leadership and the Governor’s signature to pass AB 1782 into law. This commonsense measure empowers local agencies like ours to leverage additional funds for the construction of regional homeless shelters and adjusts funding limits to account for cost increases since this section of the law was written over 12 years ago. Addressing homelessness is a regional challenge, and this bill provides us with additional tools and flexibility to collaborate on housing and service solutions for our most vulnerable residents,” said City Manager Christine Cordon.
Currently, state law authorizes local governments to spend up to $250,000 from the Low and Moderate Income House Asset Fund (LMIHAF), last set in 2012.  The adjustment authorized in AB 1782 raises the fund limit to $500,000 and ties it to CPI adjustments to reflect the realities of cost increases.