SACRAMENTO – Assemblyman Juan Alanis released the following statement in response to the California State Supreme Court’s decision regarding the potential placement of sexually violent predator Kevin Scott Gray in the City of Turlock.
“I am disappointed and angry about the decision made by the State Supreme Court on the case of Kevin Scott Gray,” said Assemblyman Juan Alanis. “I don’t believe the spirit or the letter of the laws passed by the Legislature for the placement of sexually violent predators is being followed by the Judicial or the Executive branch in this case. Everyone should be able to agree that it is not acceptable or reasonable to release such a prolifically evil predator of children to an area that has a home school nearby. This individual has admitted to assaulting 25 children and having committed 1,000 acts of indecent exposure against victims ages 8 and 11. I believe that the office of the Attorney General should be ashamed of its support for the California State Hospital in this matter. The Executive Branch clearly doesn’t care about the rule of law or the safety of children in my district. It’s not the public’s fault that the State Hospital’s contractors do a poor job selecting qualified sites for placements of these to-be-released predators. Our kids should not suffer the consequences of the government’s incompetence. It’s outrageous that California’s highest court seems poised to support the argument of the Attorney General that home schools are not real schools. It’s not ok for such a prolific predator of children to be placed in close proximity to children.  My office and I will do everything possible to fight against this individual being placed near schools or children upon his release. I will continue to stand with the concerned parents, who understandably have righteous anger for a system that continues to fail them and the public’s safety at large. Clearly, the courts and the Executive Branch need to be further checked by the Legislature in these matters. I will be introducing legislation this year to do just that. We must protect our kids. Period. End of Discussion.”
Assemblymember Juan Alanis represents the 22
nd
Assembly District, which includes the communities of Modesto, Turlock, Ceres, Denair, Patterson, Gustine, Newman, Hilmar, Ballico, Snelling, Keyes, Grayson, Crows Landing, Diablo Grande, Stevinson, & Empire.