Yesterday, Assemblyman Joe Patterson and Senator Roger Niello welcomed family members of Sergeant Nicole Gee in Roseville to watch the installation of the Sgt. Nicole Gee Memorial Highway Signs that will now be viewed daily by the thousands of drivers that travel on busy Interstate 80.

A Roseville native, Nicole Gee enlisted in the Marine Corps in 2017. During the U.S. withdrawal from Afghanistan, she was killed in a suicide bombing at Kabul International Airport on August 26, 2021 while serving her country. Just hours before the attack that took her life and the lives of 12 other officers, Sgt. Nicole Gee posted what has now become an iconic photo of her holding an afghan baby with the caption, “I love my job.”

To honor her legacy and service, Assemblyman Joe Patterson and Senator Roger Niello, state legislators representing Roseville, authored Assembly Concurrent Resolution 126 last year to designate a portion of Interstate 80 in Placer County as the Sergeant Nicole Gee United States Marine Corps Memorial Highway. After gaining unanimous support from both the Assembly and Senate, the legislators quickly began working with Caltrans to procure and display signs on a busy portion of Interstate 80 to honor the life and service of Sgt. Gee.

Assemblyman Patterson and Senator Niello shared their appreciation for the California Department of Transportation, especially the staff of District 3, for their expeditious work to prepare and install the memorial signs in advance of the upcoming four-year anniversary of the bombing on August 26. Yesterday’s installation was a moving and powerful moment for all in attendance. Assemblyman Patterson and Senator Niello shared a moment of meaningful recognition with the family, presented a framed copy of the signed legislation naming the portion of highway in Sgt. Gee’s honor, and personally walked the family over Interstate 80/Douglas overpass to view the sign installation together.

Sgt. Gee’s aunt, Cheryl Juels, illustrated the importance of preserving the memory when she said, “I am filled with gratitude to be part of this event today. Nicole's legacy remains a beacon of courage. Our greatest fear is that Nicole will be forgotten. Our hope is that these signs will remind all who drive by of the living legacy of Sgt. Nicole Gee and what she fought for.”

Assemblyman Joe Patterson said, “These memorial highway signs will serve as a reminder for all who drive by to uphold Sgt. Nicole Gee and her fellow service members’ dedication and service to our community and country. Her sacrifice is deserving of honor and her commitment to our community and nation will never be forgotten.”

Senator Roger Niello shared, “It has been my honor to be part of this journey of honoring Sgt. Nicole Gee and her service. As people drive on this portion of Interstate 80, we will all be reminded of the sacrifice, duty, and commitment that Sgt. Gee has displayed so courageously on behalf of her country.”

Signs flank the section of highway named after Sgt. Nicole Gee, posted eastbound at 80/Douglas and westbound at the 65/80 interchange. The speeches from Asm. Patterson and Sen. Niello can be found here , and the photos from the day’s event can be found here .

Capitol

Roseville

2200A Douglas Blvd, Ste 100 Roseville, CA 95661 Phone: (916) 772-0571 Fax: (916) 772-0589

Rancho Cordova

2729 Prospect Park Drive, Suite 130 Rancho Cordova, CA 95670 Phone: (916) 464-3980 Fax: (916) 464-3985

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

<d

Home

About Roger Biography Committees

Biography

Committees

Legislation Bill Search

Bill Search

Newsroom Press Releases District Messages In The News Audio / Video Photo Gallery

Press Releases

District Messages

In The News

Audio / Video

Photo Gallery

Contact Me Email the Senator My Offices District Map Subscribe

Email the Senator

My Offices

District Map

Subscribe

Assemblyman Patterson and Senator Niello Unveil Sgt. Nicole Gee Memorial Highway Sign in Advance of 4-Year Anniversary of Afghanistan Bombing

Breadcrumb