CHICO – At a special luncheon at the 5th Street Steakhouse in Chico yesterday, Assemblyman James Gallagher
celebrated the exceptional contributions of five distinguished women from Assembly District 3
with his annual Woman of the Year awards.
The dedication and impact of these women are truly inspiring and it’s an honor to celebrate them today
,” said Gallagher. “
They each bring something unique to their communities, improving lives and making the North State a better place for everyone
The 2024 honorees, each a beacon of leadership and community service in their respective fields, include:
Taylor Bunch (Butte County)
As the Executive Director of True North Housing Alliance Inc., Taylor has spearheaded significant initiatives in housing services and community resource delivery, including securing funding for the TNHA Navigation Center, which will greatly enhance efforts to provide permanent housing solutions to Butte County residents. Prior to her role at TNHA, Taylor served as an instructional aide for students with autism, a Camp Fire Recovery Counselor, and an instructor of social work and human services at Feather River College.
Abby Swearinger (Glenn County)
Abby Swearinger works in multiple roles at Stony Creek Joint Unified School District, including bus driver, classroom aide, cafeteria and yard duty supervisor and sports team coach, where she often provides transportation for students in need. In addition, she is a leader at the Grindstone Indian Rancheria, educating youth about cultural traditions, organizing community ceremonies, and acting as a liaison between the school district and the Rancheria. During the COVID-19 pandemic, Abby kept families informed and distributed essential resources like meals and educational materials. She is also an advocate for breast cancer screening within her community and continued her community service as she overcame cancer herself.
Lieutenant Susan Jensen (Sutter County)
Lieutenant Susan Jensen leads the Yuba County Sheriff’s Department Search and Rescue unit, coordinating trainings and searches, and setting standards for the state with the California Rescue Dog Association. She also serves as an incident commander during multi-jurisdictional rescues, including fire evacuations, exemplifying bravery and selflessness. Jensen’s outstanding service has earned her the Bronze Medal of Valor, Yuba County Officer of the Year and the South Yuba County Sunrise Rotary Club Community Hero of the Year.
Araceli Gutierrez (Tehama County)
Araceli Gutierrez is a prominent civic leader and advocate for the Hispanic community in Tehama County, owning Araceli Gutierrez Marketing and Consulting LLC that helps businesses reach bilingual audiences and hosting a bilingual radio station to unite the community. She has spearheaded numerous initiatives, including the creation of the first Hispanic Heritage Month celebration in Tehama County, and serves as President of Latino Outreach of Tehama County. Additionally, Araceli is actively involved with the North State Hispanic Chamber of Commerce, the Red Bluff Chamber of Commerce, and is a previous volunteer for Alternatives to violence.
Despina “Peppie” Schrader (Yuba County)
Despina “Peppie” Schrader launched Penny Lane Confections in 1988 and has served as President of the Mary Aaron Memorial Museum in Marysville for over 20 years, significantly enhancing its growth and cultural preservation. She has chaired the Bok Kai Parade and Festival, showcasing her strong organizational skills and community engagement. Additionally, Peppie has been an influential member of the Marysville Kiwanis Club for over 30 years, where she plays a vital role in community events such as the Annual Fishing Derby in Ellis Lake, Hogs and Hulas in Marysville, Back to School drives and Bringing Up Grades programs.
Honorees at the event were recognized with a Resolution from the State Assembly commending them for their work to improve the community. After being recognized and presented with their Resolution, honorees shared their stories and spoke about the positive impact of their service.
###