SACRAMENTO
–Assemblyman Joe Patterson, R-Rocklin, submitted amendments to AB 1456 today to ensure the legislature puts a stop to releasing Sexually Violent Predators (SVP) on Transient Status. In response to thousands of residents voicing concern over a
Placer County Superior Court ruling to release an SVP on Transient Status
into his district, Assemblyman Joe Patterson commits to address this harmful practice.
“The Transient Release of Sexually Violent Predators has shown to have a mere 50% success rate with 1 in every 2 cases repeat offending. It is unacceptable to allow this harmful practice to continue,” said Assemblyman Joe Patterson. “We must prioritize the safety and well-being of residents in our communities.”
With just three weeks left in the legislative session, Assemblyman Patterson took action and amended AB 1456 to begin the process of addressing this issue statewide and makes it clear that transient releases should not be allowed.
An SVP is an individual convicted of a sexually violent offense and diagnosed with a mental disorder that causes them to be a danger to others with a high likelihood to reoffend. By law, all conditional releases of SVPs must be monitored and supervised by the Department of State Hospitals. Adequate monitoring and supervision is severely impaired when an SVP is released on transient status without a designated address.
“The legislature never intended for transient releases to be allowed. This is a loophole that needs closing,” said Assemblyman Joe Patterson. “The term Sexually Violent Predator is reserved for the most dangerous criminals. A transient release should not be granted under any circumstance.”
Assemblyman Joe Patterson is committed to public safety and ensuring the residents of Assembly District 5 are represented at the state level.
State Senators Roger Niello and Marie Alvarado-Gil are principal co-authors.
Patterson represents the 5th Assembly District, which is comprised of the communities of Roseville, Rocklin, Lincoln, Granite Bay, Auburn, North Auburn, Loomis, Meadow Vista, Newcastle, Penryn, El Dorado Hills, Cameron Park, Diamond Springs, Placerville, Shingle Springs, Auburn Lake Trails, Georgetown, Cold Springs, Coloma, Rescue and Cool.