Dana Point Times — On Thursday, March 13, Assemblymember Laurie Davies honored 28 Orange County women nominated for the 2025 Women of the Year program at a reception in San Juan Capistrano. The event recognized the valuable contributions of women from California’s 74th Assembly District, celebrating their dedication and impact within their communities.

The Woman of the Year program was created to honor and celebrate the remarkable contributions of women across California who have significantly impacted their communities. The celebration was held at The Tea House on Los Rios in San Juan.

Since its inception, this program has become a powerful platform to showcase the extraordinary achievements of women, recognizing their unwavering determination, inspiring leadership, and profound compassion. By shining a light on these trailblazers, the program underscores the vital role women play in shaping our state’s social, cultural, and economic fabric.

“To all the nominated women, I want to extend my deepest gratitude. Your work and contributions do not go unnoticed,” Davies said during the ceremony. “The passion with which you serve our communities ignites hope and drives progress, making our world a better place day by day. May today be a reflection of the appreciation and admiration that your communities hold for you.”

Among the nominees, six honored women were also presented with Assembly Resolutions, which were distinguished with category awards for their exceptional dedication and influence.

Arika Ferguson received the Community Impact Award for her dedication and support of military families; Donna Kalez received the Excellence in Business Award, honoring her impact on local businesses, tourism, and marine education; Janet Siegel was recognized with the Community Service Extraordinaire Award for her longtime devotion to preserving San Juan Capistrano’s rich history and cultural heritage; Julie Schoen received the Service to Seniors Award, acknowledging her efforts to advocate on behalf of seniors and protect older adults from abuse and scams; Michele Leonhart received the Legacy of Leadership and Service Award recognizing her commitment to stop drug abuse and support law enforcement and public service education; and Vicki Patterson was honored with the Excellence in Environmental Stewardship due to her influential role and unwavering dedication to protecting the ocean and keeping beaches and marine life safe.

Members of Dana Point, San Clemente, San Juan Capistrano, and Laguna Niguel were also recognized with Certificates of Recognition for their work in and around the community. The following women were acknowledged:

Dana Point: Hydee Riggs, Patricia Short, Lauren Becker, and Kirsten Donald.

San Clemente: Emerald Archer, Susan Dixon, Debbie Hansen-Bosse, Sarah Klingler, Karen Prescott-Loeffler, Petti Van Rekom, and Jane Wahl.

San Juan Capistrano: Julie Ryan Johnson and Stacie Weaver.

Laguna Niguel: Shirin Behzadi, Melissa Caldwell, Cheryl Flohr, Kerry Keen, Sarah Neff, and Cathleen Pryor.

“ I’ve had wonderful women mentors in my life, and I know we all have,” Davies said. “God’s given us all something very special that he wants us to use out there and to give, and each of you brings something unique. It’s something that is needed, so we’re so happy here to be able to recognize you.”

The Woman of the Year event was founded in 1987 by Assemblymember Bev Hansen (R) and  Assemblymember Sally Tanner (D), who noticed that the California Legislature had no events planned for March, Women’s History Month.

In celebration of the contributions to society made by remarkable women throughout California, Hansen and Tanner arranged to invite one woman from each Senate and Assembly district to be honored for their accomplishments. This yearly event, sponsored and organized by the Women’s Caucus, is greatly anticipated by all legislators today.

March 21, 2025

In the News , Press Release

August 28, 2025

August 20, 2025

July 3, 2025

Related Posts