Assemblyman Tri Ta Passes Three More Bipartisan Bills out of the Assembly, Joining Three Others Already in the Senate
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
June 5, 2023
SACRAMENTO – Last week, Assemblyman Tri Ta passed a number of bills out of the California State Assembly that will help Californians by finding ways to provide aid for our veterans, streamlining local government, and supporting students’ success in the classroom.
“I am pleased that my colleagues in the Assembly saw the merit of the legislation I brought forward this session and that we successfully passed several vital bills I authored that will help Californians across the state.”  These bills will help our government find effective ways to help women veterans who struggle with mental health, streamline our local government processes, and support our students’ success in our community colleges. I’m proud to have authored these pieces of legislation and successfully work across the aisle to get these bills passed.”
Assemblyman Tri Ta’s three bills passed out of the California State Assembly this week are:
AB 718, which would require the California Department of Veterans Affairs to conduct a study of mental health among women veterans and submit the findings and corresponding recommendations to the legislature.
AB 1458, which would streamline the decision-making within HOAs and allows caring members of a community to have their voices heard.
AB 1370, which would update the Economic Workforce Development program at our community colleges to focus on student-centered outcomes.
The bills listed above are joining three others authored by Assemblyman Ta currently in the Senate:
AB 925 would prevent cars with lost or stolen registration tags from being impounded.
AB 1080 would require the Legislative Analyst’s Office to conduct a study on the impact of our state’s public safety realignment law, determining the impact of California’s policy of releasing offenders from prison if their crimes were not violent felonies.
AB 1173 would help spread awareness about career fairs so local community college students have the opportunity to plan to attend
###
Assemblyman Tri Ta represents northwest Orange County in the California Legislature.  The 70
th
District includes Fountain Valley, Garden Grove, Los Alamitos, Midway City, Rossmoor, Stanton, Westminster and portions of Huntington Beach, Santa Ana and Seal Beach.