(PALM DESERT)— It is with profound sadness that we share the passing of Brian Nestande.

Brian dedicated himself to public service throughout his life, notably as Chief of Staff to Congressman Sonny Bono and later Congresswoman Mary Bono. He was elected to serve in the California State Assembly in 2008 where he served until 2014, representing the Caoachella Valley.

Assemblymember Greg Wallis, who served as Nestande’s campaign manager in 2014, stated, “Brian Nestande was not just a trusted friend and mentor but a true champion for the community. His pragmatic approach in working with colleagues across the aisle and advocating for good government policies no matter where they came from is something I will take with me throughout my career. Desiree and I considered Brian part of our family and while we take comfort knowing he is now with God, we will deeply miss his humor, wisdom, and unconditional friendship. My deepest condolences go out to his family during this difficult time.”

Supervisor Manny Perez added, “I am heartbroken and full of sadness to tell you all that our dear friend, ally, mentor and brother, Brian, is now with God,” said Supervisor V. Manuel Perez. “We came into the State Assembly together in 2008, representing the Coachella Valley from different viewpoints of the political spectrum, and formed a companionship that grew closer with every late evening working to help our state through the Great Recession. We kept our partnership going, in a true spirit of bipartisanship, working as a team to serve Riverside County and our Fourth District constituents. Brian will be remembered as a devoted advocate for Riverside County. I always appreciated his perspective and, more than anything, my family including my wife, my parents, my sons, my extended family, will miss his presence. That’s how much we all loved Brian. Brian leaves a beautiful family, who are all in our prayers during this tough time.”

Brian’s commitment to Riverside County and his exemplary service as a state legislator reflect his dedication and passion.

He is survived by his wife Gina, son Hayden, daughter Sophia, stepchildren Sadie, Tad, Mason, Molly, and Savana.

The family requests privacy at this time. Details regarding memorial services will be provided soon.

For inquiries, please contact Marc Troast at (760) 408-4876 or troast@troastandassociates.com.