SACRAMENTO – Today, Assemblymember Alanis has announced his introduction of four Assembly Bills related to K-12 education and higher education across California.
AB 1796 and AB 1871 are both geared to benefit students in secondary education. The first, AB 1796, would require schools to notify parents and/or guardians of the specific Advanced Placement (AP), International Baccalaureate (IB), career technical education (CTE), and dual enrollment course offerings available at their minor student’s respective campus. The second bill, AB 1871, would require schools to teach students about personal finance before they graduate high school.
“I am excited that the first bill I introduced this year, AB 1796, is one that opens up new pathways to students who may not be interested or able to pursue a higher education,” said Assemblyman Alanis. “Both of these education bills encourage our youth to turn their passions into careers while improving communication between schools, students, and parents or guardians.”
The Assemblymember also introduced two bills related to higher education. AB 1927 would expand the Golden State Teacher Grant Program to prospective CTE instructors who commit to at least 4 years of work as a credentialed instructor. The second bill, AB 1839, would create a financial aid grant program for prospective peace officers in order to streamline the process for these prospective officers to meet their minimum education requirements and enter the workforce.
“Both of my higher education bills target industries that have statistically fallen behind and struggle to recruit and retain strong employees,” said the Assemblyman. “AB 1927 and AB 1839 make it easier for students to find life-long careers and fill those gaps in our workforce.”
Each of these legislative proposals will be discussed in their respective policy committees and put to a vote in the next few months.
Assemblymember Juan Alanis represents the 22
nd
Assembly District, which includes the communities of Modesto, Turlock, Ceres, Denair, Patterson, Gustine, Newman, Hilmar, Ballico, Snelling, Keyes, Grayson, Crows Landing, Diablo Grande, Stevinson, & Empire.