Law Enforcement and Victim Advocates Join Call for Stiffer Sentences for Gun, Gang Crimes and End to Early Release of Violent Felons
SACRAMENTO – Today, in the wake of a gang shootout that claimed six lives just blocks from the Capitol, Assembly Republicans joined law enforcement representatives and victim advocates to call for stiffer sentences for gun and gang crimes and an end to California’s early release policies that allowed one of the alleged shooters out of prison after serving just a fraction of a 10-year sentence for violently assaulting his girlfriend.
“The violence we saw last weekend should be a wakeup call that Democrats’ criminal justice policies of the last decade aren’t working,” said Assembly Republican Leader James Gallagher (Yuba City). “It’s time to bring accountability back into our justice system and restore meaningful consequences for breaking the law and hurting innocent Californians.”
“We need harsher penalties for felons caught with guns,” said Assemblywoman Laurie Davies (R-Laguna Niguel). “We need to bring back common-sense criminal justice laws that hold criminals accountable.”
“The murder of six people, and the wounding of more than a dozen others last weekend just steps from here, was a horrific tragedy – but, unfortunately, is a story that has become all too familiar thanks to the pro-criminal policies that are putting more violent criminals on our streets.  Every. Single. Day,” said Assemblywoman Suzette Valladares.  “These brazen crimes are becoming a daily occurrence.  We need immediate, fundamental change or these tragedies will continue, and our families, friends, neighbors and communities will continue to fall victim to the murderers, rapists and violent offenders that are being released early thanks to California’s broken system.”
At the press conference, victims’ advocates and law enforcement officials called for increased sentences for felons in possession of firearms, the repeal of laws that disallow gun and gang prison sentencing enhancements, and an immediate end to Democrat policies that are accelerating the early release of violent felons. Assembly Republicans are asking lawmakers to sign onto a
letter
opposing the expansion of California’s failed early release program.
Law enforcement figures who attended the press conference included El Dorado County District Attorney Vern Pierson, Sacramento County Undersheriff Jim Barnes, Nathan Seger and Chuck Pfau from the Sacramento County Deputy Sheriffs’ Association, Yuba County Sheriff Wendell Anderson, Yuba County District Attorney Clint Curry. Victim advocates in attendance included Top Padilla of Crime Victims United and Jonathan Madison of the Be The Change Commission.
High-res footage of the event is available
here
.