SACRAMENTO
– Today, Assemblyman Joe Patterson (R-Rocklin) and Assemblyman Juan Alanis (R-Modesto) introduced AB 292 classifying felony domestic violence as a “violent felony.” AB 292 will hold the most violent domestic abusers accountable by making them ineligible for “early release.” This will be the third attempt at this legislation, after the bill was refused a hearing in 2024. This time, the legislation is being introduced with the support of the California State Sheriffs’ Association as the sponsor.
Statistics show that nearly two-thirds of mass shooters have documented histories of domestic violence or
have killed a family member.
This marks an increase from earlier years, underscoring the ongoing risk posed by violent offenders with such histories.
Patterson, a staunch advocate for public safety since taking office in 2022, is pushing for changes to California’s laws, which continue to allow convicted violent domestic abusers to serve shorter sentences and be released early under Proposition 57. “This issue is about more than dangerous relationships– it’s a much broader public safety crisis,” Patterson said. “The data speaks for itself: violent domestic abusers are the individuals most likely to commit mass shootings. We must address this problem at its root, or we risk continuing this cycle of violence.”
As Vice Chair of the Assembly Public Safety Committee, Alanis has been a voice of reason defending critical public safety legislation. “Classifying domestic violence as a violent felony is a common-sense proposal that recognizes the profound harm victims endure,” said Assemblymember Alanis. “As a career law enforcement officer, I can tell you firsthand that responding to these incidents is among the most dangerous situations we can face. Domestic violence is violent assault and must be treated as such by state law.”
A prime example of the issue is Smiley Martin, the primary shooter arrested in connection with the 2022 Sacramento mass shooting. Martin was convicted in 2018 for a brutal domestic violence assault, during which he broke into his girlfriend’s home, repeatedly beat her with a closed fist, and dragged her outside by her hair. Despite serving only 4 years of his 10-year sentence, Martin was released early due to California’s classification of domestic violence as a “nonviolent” felony under Proposition 57.
“It should go without saying but felony domestic violence is an inherently violent crime,” said Orange County Sheriff Don Barnes, President of the California State Sheriffs’ Association. “As the Legislature continues to re-examine and adjust the violent felony list, adding felony domestic violence is an obvious way to increase accountability and protect victims.”
Under current law, many felony domestic abuse convictions are still considered “nonviolent,” making offenders eligible for early release after serving only 50% of their sentence. Furthermore, nonviolent felonies do not count as strikes under California’s three-strikes law, preventing prosecutors from seeking longer sentences for repeat offenders. A
data report from the California Department of Justice
indicates that domestic violence convictions are one of the leading indicators of future violent behavior, including mass shootings.
In response to this troubling trend, Patterson and Alanis have introduced AB 292 to reclassify violent domestic violence offenses as “violent crimes” under state law. The bill would also prevent early release for offenders with a history of severe domestic violence and strengthen penalties for repeat offenders. Assemblymembers Joe Patterson and Juan Alanis are hopeful this bipartisan bill will finally be given the attention it deserves.