SACRAMENTO – Yesterday, Assemblyman Alanis proudly honored Love Patterson as the 2024 Nonprofit of the Year, recognizing the organization’s unwavering commitment to fostering community spirit, engagement, and support within Patterson.
“Love Patterson exemplifies what it means to positively serve the community,” said Assemblyman Alanis. “Their dedication to addressing local needs through collaborative, community-driven solutions is admirable and essential. It is my honor to recognize their tireless efforts and their meaningful impact on my district.”
Founded to inspire the community to connect, participate, give, and serve, Love Patterson has significantly promoted unity and positive change. The organization’s projects range from neighborhood clean-up events and refurbishing local sports fields to awareness campaigns on critical issues like human trafficking. Love Patterson’s city-wide Volunteer Day, a hallmark event, brings together volunteers to support schools, nonprofits, seniors, veterans, active-duty military, children in need, and small businesses.
“By choosing Love Patterson as Nonprofit of the Year for my district, we celebrate the power of grassroots initiatives and their impact on our community,” Assemblyman Alanis added. “Their work inspires all of us to get involved and make a difference.”
Throughout the year, Love Patterson engages in numerous initiatives, including the Without Permission Human Trafficking 201 Course and the Build and Stock Patterson Little Free Libraries project. These initiatives highlight the organization’s commitment to addressing various community needs through education and resource provision.
Assemblyman Alanis’ recognition of Love Patterson underscores the organization’s vital role in enhancing the quality of life in Patterson. As they continue their mission to inspire love, connection, and service, Love Patterson remains a beacon of hope and a model of effective community engagement.
Assemblymember Juan Alanis represents the 22
nd
Assembly District, which includes the communities of Modesto, Turlock, Ceres, Denair, Patterson, Gustine, Newman, Hilmar, Ballico, Snelling, Keyes, Grayson, Crows Landing, Diablo Grande, Stevinson, & Empire.