The Governmental Organization Committee passed Senate Bill 765 on Tuesday. The bill establishes the giant garter snake as the official state snake.

The giant garter snake was listed as threatened in California in 1971 and federally recognized as threatened in 1993. Its population has declined by more than 90% in the past century. Since then, there have been conservatory efforts in support of the snake in the wetlands and rice fields.

“Found in wetlands across the state, the giant garter snake is an essential part of our natural heritage and helps keep the balance in the environment,” said Senator Roger Niello, the author of SB 765. “I am proud to be part of the effort to make the giant garter snake the official snake and raise awareness about its important role in our state’s environment and agriculture.”

Michael Starkey, the Founder and Executive Director of Save The Snakes , said, “Designating the giant garter snake as California's official State Snake is more than a symbolic gesture; it's a crucial step in raising awareness about this vulnerable species and its vital role in our state's ecosystems.” He continued, “This designation will amplify conservation efforts, fostering public education and ensuring the protection of this unique and ecologically significant reptile for generations to come. It’s a chance to highlight the importance of wetlands and the delicate balance of nature within California.”

California Rice Commission President and CEO Tim Johnson expressed the commission’s support, “With 95% of California’s wetlands now gone, rice fields and the canals that feed them have become valuable habitat for the giant garter snake. Our farmers are working with researchers and water districts to understand how our fields can provide even more habitat to this iconic species.”

Tuesday’s bill presentation video is available at https://youtu.be/_OW1l1NlBIY . SB 765 now goes to the Senate Floor.

Capitol

Roseville

2200A Douglas Blvd, Ste 100 Roseville, CA 95661 Phone: (916) 772-0571 Fax: (916) 772-0589

Rancho Cordova

2729 Prospect Park Drive, Suite 130 Rancho Cordova, CA 95670 Phone: (916) 464-3980 Fax: (916) 464-3985

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

<d

Home

About Roger Biography Committees

Biography

Committees

Legislation Bill Search

Bill Search

Newsroom Press Releases District Messages In The News Audio / Video Photo Gallery

Press Releases

District Messages

In The News

Audio / Video

Photo Gallery

Contact Me Email the Senator My Offices District Map Subscribe

Email the Senator

My Offices

District Map

Subscribe

Bill to Designate the Giant Garter Snake as the California State Snake Passes the Senate Governmental Organizations Committee

Breadcrumb