Senator Marie Alvarado-Gil (R-Jackson) at a bipartisan press conference on Senate Bill 268.

Today, the California State Assembly Appropriations Committee unanimously approved Senate Bill (SB) 268 , authored by Senator Marie Alvarado-Gil (R-Jackson), which will close a loophole in current law that allows certain offenders to receive preferential treatment in sentencing and early release proceedings.

Senator Alvarado-Gil – herself a victim of sexual assault – has been a staunch advocate on the issue since she was elected to the senate in 2022. She introduced SB 268 during her first year in office, receiving widespread support from legislators and victims’ rights groups on all sides of the political spectrum.

“This is not a victory for me, it is a victory for her, for him, for all the victims of rape who are served half portions of justice by the current system,” said Senator Alvarado-Gil . “No rape is less serious than the other. No rape is more acceptable than another. No law should tell a victim that what happened to them is not as significant as what happened to someone else. Today, we took a huge step away from that and I couldn’t be more pleased with the bipartisan support for this common sense legislation.”

Senate Bill 268 will classify rape of an intoxicated person as a violent felony. By reclassifying it as such, criminals whose victims are intoxicated would be eligible for sentencing enhancements and ineligible for early release. It has experienced widespread bipartisan support in both houses of the Legislature and will now move to the Assembly Floor.

“This is a rare and meaningful win for victims’ rights in California,” said Senate Minority Leader Brian W. Jones (R-San Diego) . “Under no circumstances should rapists be treated leniently because of some obscure loophole in the law. Predators have no friends in the Senate Republican Caucus, and I’m pleased at today’s outcome. These victims don’t deserve to be robbed of justice because of technicalities or political considerations.”

Senator Rosilicie Ochoa Bogh (R-Yucaipa), who also co-authored the bill, expressed her jubilation at the decision as well. She has been actively engaged in public safety reforms throughout her tenure in the Legislature and has worked actively to see SB 268 through the process.

“Every rape is serious and violent. Senate Bill 268 will ensure these predators are punished fully and all sexual assault victims receive equal justice,” said Senator Ochoa Bogh . “This issue transcends partisan politics; it is a human issue, not a political one. I am encouraged to see that when something this imperative comes along, members of both parties are still able to put the people first as they have here today.”

Capitol

Modesto

1020 15th Street, Ste 21 Modesto, CA 95354 Phone: (209) 576-6001

El Dorado Hills

4364 Town Center Blvd, Suite 313 El Dorado Hills, CA 95762 Phone: (916) 933-8680

Privacy Policy

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

<d

Home

About Marie Biography District Map

Biography

District Map

Legislation Bill Search

Bill Search

Newsroom Press Releases Op-Eds

Press Releases

Op-Eds

Contact Me District Offices Email the Senator Scheduling Requests State Resources Subscribe

District Offices

Email the Senator

Scheduling Requests

State Resources

Subscribe

Bill to close rape loophole, protect victims, clears major hurdle

Breadcrumb