A bipartisan group of State legislators, public safety officials, and victim advocates gathered at the State Capitol today to recognize the initial investment in implementing the will of the voters while emphasizing the need for funding a comprehensive approach to probation and supervision reversing ongoing cuts to probation which will ensure the measure’s long-term success.

Specifically, attending today’s press conference included: State Senator Catherine Blakespear, (D-Encinitas), State Senator Roger Niello (R-Fair Oaks) , Sutter County Sheriff Brandon Barnes, California State Sheriffs’ Association President, Sacramento County Sheriff Jim Cooper, Monterey County District Attorney Jeannine M. Pacioni, California District Attorneys Association First Vice President, San Diego County Sheriff Kelly Martinez, San Joaquin County Probation Chief Jackson, Chief Probation Officers of California President, Tulare County Probation Chief Kelly Vernon, El Dorado County Probation Chief Brian Richart, Solano County Probation Chief Dean Farrah, Lake County Probation Chief Wendy Mondfrans, Yuba County Probation Chief Matt Ricardy, Napa County Probation Chief Amanda Gibbs, and Anna Berry with Crime Victims United-California.

“Proposition 36 passed with overwhelming voter support and now it’s time to provide the resources needed to implement it,” said Senator Catherine S. Blakespear. “This initial investment is a strong first step in a tough budget year, but we need to make sure there is ongoing funding for supervision, treatment, and accountability.”

“A budget is an expression of priorities, and the current state budget does not acknowledge the will of the voters who overwhelmingly supported Proposition 36,” said Senator Roger Niello . “The $110 million designated to fund Proposition 36 is wholly inadequate to achieve the goals of a treatment-focused approach that will lead to improving lives and self-sufficiency.”

The proposed budget includes an initial, one-time funding of $110 million towards Proposition 36. While this investment marks progress, public safety officials and law enforcement say it falls short. The initial plan misses the mark relative to the measure’s core component: ensuring accountability to complete court-mandated treatment. By failing to fully and properly fund law enforcement accountability efforts, the Legislature and Governor are unable to meet the will of California voters and threatening the success of Prop 36.

“We cannot implement Prop 36 effectively if we ignore the reality of what’s happening on the ground,” said Sutter County Sheriff Brandon Barnes, California State Sheriffs’ Association President. “County sheriffs and probation departments are essential partners in making sure treatment is delivered and enforced. But right now, we’ve been left out of the equation. We need real resources to deliver real results.”

Public safety officials emphasized that the budget must not only restore cuts to county probation departments but increase those funds as they are responsible for supervising court-ordered treatment and ensuring compliance. Without those frontline supports, there is no accountability. In the Legislature’s budget there are $25M in ongoing supervision cuts and $20M in ongoing pre-trial cuts in the Governor’s proposed budget.

“Probation ensures people stay on track with their treatment plans and court orders, and holds them accountable when they don’t,” said Chief Steve Jackson, President of the Chief Probation Officers of California . “This budget significantly cuts Probation funding at the exact moment we’re being asked to do more. That means less people will follow through with rehabilitation and that threatens public safety.”

Even the funding that has been allocated is narrowly directed to county behavioral health departments, leaving out key justice system partners who are critical to successful outcomes.

“Treatment without accountability isn’t what Prop 36 says – we need to ensure law enforcement has resources it needs to best hold people accountable, which will improve public safety,” said Monterey County District Attorney Jeannine M. Pacioni , First Vice President of the California District Attorneys Association. “Voters said yes to Prop 36 because they wanted a better path forward. That means the budget needs to support the full system: courts, probation, law enforcement, and treatment – not just one piece of it -- otherwise it is set up to fail.”

The Legislature’s proposed state budget specifically ignores critical elements, including:

No support and a budget cut for county probation departments to handle the increased workload of supervising individuals and connecting them to treatment in the community while holding them accountable.

No resources for frontline law enforcement to support interventions in the community.

No funding to house arrestees in county jails and provide in-custody treatment.

No funding for key partners of treatment delivery such as county sheriff and probation departments who are critical for court-ordered supervision and successful outcomes while only offering modest funds to county behavioral health agencies.

Capitol

Roseville

2200A Douglas Blvd, Ste 100 Roseville, CA 95661 Phone: (916) 772-0571 Fax: (916) 772-0589

Rancho Cordova

2729 Prospect Park Drive, Suite 130 Rancho Cordova, CA 95670 Phone: (916) 464-3980 Fax: (916) 464-3985

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

<d

Home

About Roger Biography Committees

Biography

Committees

Legislation Bill Search

Bill Search

Newsroom Press Releases District Messages In The News Audio / Video Photo Gallery

Press Releases

District Messages

In The News

Audio / Video

Photo Gallery

Contact Me Email the Senator My Offices District Map Subscribe

Email the Senator

My Offices

District Map

Subscribe

Bipartisan Leaders & Law Enforcement Recognize Initial Funding for Implementing Proposition 36 and Call for Continued Investment in Accountability and Supervision to Set Up Prop 36 for Success

Breadcrumb