California lawmakers, whose districts are devastated by catastrophic flooding, are requesting President Biden to support the state’s call for a Presidential Major Disaster Declaration. Residents have had to evacuate their homes, businesses and farms. Federal support is needed to help these Californians move forward in recovery efforts.

Below and attached is a copy of their letter. March 29, 2023

The Honorable Joseph R. Biden President of the United States The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Ave, NW Washington, DC 20500

President Biden,

We write to you in support of the State of California’s request for a Presidential Major Disaster Declaration in response to the recent severe winter storms that have swept through and devastated many parts of California.

These storms have resulted in widespread flooding, displacing hundreds and hundreds of California residents, while also damaging critical infrastructure, washing out roads and bridges and threatening the livelihood of multiple industries across our state. Federal assistance is needed to supplement and support the efforts of state and local government in response to this disaster.

Response and recovery from these storms will require long-term investment, partnerships and coordination, and we ask that you swiftly approve California’s request for a Presidential Major Disaster Declaration and provide for all categories of public assistance, individual assistance and direct federal assistance.

Sincerely,

Vince Fong Assemblymember 32nd District

Robert Rivas Assemblymember 29th District

Jim Patterson Assemblymember 8 th District

Heath Flora Assemblymember 9th District

Gail Pellerin Assemblymember 28th District

Dawn Addis Assemblymember 30th District

Tom Lackey Assemblymember 34 th District

Devon Mathis Assemblymember 33rd District

Jasmeet Bains Assemblymember 35 th District

Freddie Rodriguez Assemblymember 53rd District

Marie Waldron Assemblymember 75th District

# # #

Contact Nghia.Nguyen@asm.ca.gov 916-813-8367

Assemblyman Vince Fong represents the 32 nd Assembly District, which encompasses Kern and Tulare Counties.