Bowie’s Law will require 72-hour public notice before an adoptable pet can be euthanized

SACRAMENTO, Calif., April 11, 2023
– Today
Assemblyman Bill Essayli
successfully advanced
Bowie’s Law
, Assembly Bill 595, unanimously out of the Assembly Business and Professions Committee.
Bowie’s Law
will save pets from euthanasia by requiring 72-hour public notice before a pet can be euthanized. AB 595 will also commission a statewide study to provide data on our overcrowding at animal shelters to develop comprehensive strategies to help stop unnecessary euthanasia.
“Every adoptable pet deserves the chance to find a loving home. Unfortunately, far too often, perfectly healthy, loving animals are euthanized before they have a chance to be adopted. Last year an innocent puppy named Bowie was wrongfully euthanized, and AB 595, Bowie’s Law, would have prevented this tragedy from occurring,” remarked
Assemblyman Essayli
Nickolaus Sackett
with
Social Compassion in Legislation
testified in support, “As California’s animal shelters continue to remain full of adoptable animals, the need for predictable, systematic communication between the shelters and the public, including rescue organizations, is imperative. We believe that the bill with today’s amendments […] will help save more animals’ lives.”
Amber Lancaster
, an animal activist, volunteer, and cast member on the Price is Right who uses her celebrity platform to save animals also testified, “Healthy, adoptable animals, some just babies like Bowie are being killed every single day without any notice. […] In the inter-connected online era we live in, it is astonishing that this 72-hour notice is not already being done voluntarily.”
CLICK HERE
to view today’s hearing.
AB 595 (Essayli)
received unanimous support from the Assembly Business and Professions Committee today and now advances to the Assembly Appropriations Committee.
Assemblyman Bill Essayli represents the 63rd Assembly District in the California Legislature, which includes the whole cities of Norco, Menifee, Lake Elsinore, and Canyon Lake, as well as portions of the cities of Eastvale, Riverside, and Corona.