SACRAMENTO — Today, Rachelle Murcia was named by Senator Shannon Grove as the 2021 Woman of the Year for the 16th Senate District. Rachelle was named during a recognition ceremony during today’s Senate session in Sacramento.

“Rachelle is a leader, a fighter, and I am proud to recognize her for all she does for our region,” said Senator Shannon Grove. “Rachelle serves as an inspiration for those battling life’s challenges and her story is an example of strength and the power of community.”

In accepting the recognition, Murcia said, “I thank Senator Grove for the honor of being named Senate District 16’s Woman of the Year. This year was unprecedented in many regards—personally, professionally, and with the global pandemic. The strength and support our community gave to me proved invaluable and I am grateful for all those who fought alongside me and carried me through this journey.”

Given annually by each California legislator in their district, the Woman of the Year award celebrates extraordinary women throughout the state. The first recognition was held in 1987 to help commemorate Women’s History Month and the award has become an annual Capitol tradition to salute women who have done outstanding community service. Honorees are presented with a framed certificate from the Legislature recognizing their outstanding contributions.

About Rachelle Murcia:

Rachelle has served as a newscast anchor for local Bakersfield stations since 2011.

Raised in Indiana, Rachelle caught the journalism bug at a young age where she quickly excelled in speaking. She went on to graduate from Ball State University with a degree in telecommunications.

Rachelle’s career in journalism also started in Indianapolis but brought her around the country to places such as Kennewick Washington, Las Vegas, Seattle, and finally to Bakersfield in 2011 where she worked at KGET for four years before joining the KBAK/KBFX news team.

Rachelle has been nominated for numerous Emmy awards, including for her reports on Honor Flight Kern County. And, she won multiple Emmy and Edward R. Morrow awards for her stations.

Rachelle is an active supporter of many local nonprofits, including Honor Flight Kern County, Links for Life, Wounded Heroes Fund, the Bakersfield SPCA, and the Housing and Opportunity Foundation of Kern.

In January 2020, Rachelle announced she was diagnosed with early stage three breast cancer. She shared the news with her viewers who soon became part of her battle and journey. She underwent numerous rounds of chemotherapy, a mastectomy, dozens of rounds of radiations, all while still working from home. In October 2020, Rachelle announced she was cancer free, in remission, and is a survivor.

In her spare time, Rachelle loves to cook, run, and watch the NFL. Her favorite pastime is spending time with her family, including her loving husband, beautiful step-daughter and step-son, dogs Tinkerbell, Rockie and Charo, and cat Gypsy.

Capitol Office

1021 O Street, Room 7150 Sacramento, CA 95814 Phone: (916) 651-4012 Fax: (916) 651-4916

Bakersfield Office

5701 Truxtun Ave., Suite 150 Bakersfield, CA 93309 Phone: (661) 323-0443 Fax: (661) 323-0446

Fresno Office

567 W. Shaw Ave., Suite A-3 Fresno, CA 93704 Phone:  559-243-8580

facebook Facebook

twitter Twitter

instagram Instagram

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

Home

About Shannon Biography Committees 12th Senate District Map

Biography

Committees

12th Senate District Map

Legislation My Legislation Bill Search Submit a Legislative Proposal

My Legislation

Bill Search

Submit a Legislative Proposal

Newsroom Releases / Editorials Photos

Releases / Editorials

Photos

Resources California Senate Fellows Program Coronavirus Information Education Register to Vote Unclaimed Property Veteran Resources

California Senate Fellows Program

Coronavirus Information

Education

Register to Vote

Unclaimed Property

Veteran Resources

Contact me My Offices E-mail the Senator Subscribe

My Offices

E-mail the Senator

Subscribe

Breast Cancer Survivor, Bakersfield Reporter Rachelle Murcia honored as Senate District 16 Woman of the Year

More News

View All

Breadcrumb

Aug 29
Senator Shannon Grove Celebrates Advancement of Key Bills for Special Education and Rural Healthcare, Expresses Disappointment Over Scrapping of Leno’s Law
Aug 27
VIDEO: Celebrity advocate Paris Hilton calls for passage of child protection measure ahead of key vote
Aug 25
Senator Shannon Grove and Assemblyman David Tangipa  Honor Retired NFL Quarterback, Derek Carr
Aug 21
Senator Shannon Grove opposes Democrats' attempt to override the will of California voters