Dear Friends,

I am honored to have been selected by my colleagues to serve as the Senate Republican Caucus Chair effective March 1. This is the second-highest ranking in the Republican leadership structure and I will assist Senate Republican Leader-elect Shannon Grove in overseeing caucus operations, advancing our message, and achieving our legislative goals.

While I’m eager to take on this new leadership role for our state, representing and assisting my constituents are my top priorities. If you have any questions or need help with a state issue, please do not hesitate to contact me by emailing at senator.jones@sen.ca.gov or by calling 619-596-3136.

In case you missed it, here is Times of San Diego’s article on the announcement. You can also read this article at: https://timesofsandiego.com/ politics/2019/01/23/sen-brian- jones-named-republican-caucus- chair-increasing-san-diego- clout/ .

Brian Jones Named GOP Caucus Chair, Increasing San Diego Clout in Sacramento

BY CHRIS JENNEWEIN ON JANUARY 23, 2019

San Diego County gained another high-level voice in the state Legislature Wednesday with the election of Sen. Brian Jones as Republican Caucus Chair.

Jones, who was elected to his first term in the Senate in November, joins San Diego-area lawmakers Toni Atkins and Todd Gloria, both Democrats, and Marie Waldron, a Republican, in top leadership roles.

“I look forward to working with incoming Senate Republican Leader Shannon Grove to consistently and effectively communicate and advocate for the policies of the Senate Republican Caucus,” said Jones. “I also commit to help all senators, and particularly Senate President pro-Tem Toni Atkins , in the continued smooth operation of the Senate.”

Gloria is Majority Whip in the Assembly, and Waldron is the Republican Leader in that body.

The Caucus Chair is the number two position in the Republican leadership structure. Jones will assist Grove, who represents the Bakersfield area, in overseeing caucus operations, advancing the Republican message, and achieving the caucus’ legislative goals.

“Sen. Jones and I have a great working relationship that began while we served in the Assembly. I have great respect for him and the strengths he brings to the Republican Caucus leadership team,” said Grove.

Jones represents the 38th District, which covers San Diego County north of Interstate 8 and east of Interstate 15.

Sincerely,

Brian Jones State Senator, District 38

Capitol Office

1021 O Street, Room 7640 Sacramento, CA 95814 Phone: (916) 651-4040 Fax: (916) 651-4940

Scripps Ranch Office

10650 Treena Street #110 San Diego, CA 92131 Phone: (858) 547-3818

Escondido Office

720 N. Broadway, Suite 110 Escondido, CA 92025 Phone: (760) 796-4655

facebook Facebook

twitter Twitter

instagram Instagram

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

Home

About Brian Biography

Biography

Legislation My Legislation Committees Bill Search

My Legislation

Committees

Bill Search

Newsroom Releases/Editorials In The News Audio/Video Are You Kidding Me? Photos Media Kit

Releases/Editorials

In The News

Audio/Video

Are You Kidding Me?

Photos

Media Kit

Contact Me Certificate Request District Internship Program District Map E-mail the Senator Legislative Proposal My Offices Subscribe to the Mailing List

Certificate Request

District Internship Program

District Map

E-mail the Senator

Legislative Proposal

My Offices

Subscribe to the Mailing List

Brian Jones Named GOP Caucus Chair, Increasing San Diego Clout in Sacramento (Times of San Diego)

More News

ICYMI

View All

Breadcrumb

Aug 6
California Republicans’ Growing Impact on Social Media
Jul 16
Leader Jones Stands on Steps of the Capitol Opposing the Anti-Charter School Bill
Jul 16
AB 84 Charter Schools Press Conference
Jul 15
Leader Jones Demands Accountability on Dangerous Sexually Violent Predator Program

Jun 17
2025
$8-a-gallon gas? Senate Minority Leader Brian W. Jones requests audit of gas price hikes
Jun 9
2025
Nixed bill could have prevented LA unrest, California minority leader says
Jun 8
2025
California lawmaker warns Menendez brothers' case is driving return of bill to release thousands of killers
Jun 3
2025
Ramona nonprofit, resident recognized with Senate District 40 awards