Subcommittee #1 (Education) Laird (D-Santa Cruz) Chair, Ochoa Bogh (R-Yucaipa), and Pérez (D-Pasadena)

Republican Expresses Concerns About College Affordability. The subcommittee heard an overview of the Governor’s proposal to cut a combined $1.2 billion in funding for the California State University (CSU) and University of California (UC). The CSU Chancellor and the UC President both testified that the cuts would result in fewer classes available and reductions to student services. The CSU already raises student tuition by 6 percent each year, while UC raises tuition by up to 5 percent for each incoming freshman class, and the proposed cuts would further threaten college affordability. Senator Rosilicie Ochoa Bogh (R-Yucaipa) voiced her opposition to the Governor’s proposed cuts, expressing concerns about students’ ability to afford a university education, and arguing that funding for UC and CSU has not been a high enough priority in the state budget during Governor Newsom’s tenure. “I’m very concerned about students’ ability to afford a public education, particularly at UC and CSU,” she said. The subcommittee will vote on these issues at a future hearing.

Subcommittee #2 (Resources, Environmental Protection, and Energy)Allen (D-Santa Monica) Chair, Choi (R-Irvine), Blakespear (D-Encinitas), and McNerney (D- Pleasanton)

Effectiveness of Climate Policies Scrutinized by Republican Lawmaker. Senator Choi (R-Irvine) joined fellow budget subcommittee members in questioning the financial impact of California’s climate policies on residents. Emphasizing affordability and practicality, he echoed concerns about recent budgets that allocated substantial funding to new programs and services. “We can achieve similar emissions reductions by investing in existing programs rather than creating new ones,” Choi stated. The senator contends that recent budget deficits should prompt the Governor and legislature to reconsider funding programs that are ineffective or unaffordable. He added that if addressing climate change remains a key budget priority, the state must seek more affordable alternatives to ensure fairness for taxpayers.

Subcommittee #3 (Health and Human Services) Weber Pierson (D-San Diego) Chair, Grove (R-Bakersfield), Menjivar (D-San Fernando Valley)

Subcommittee 3 did not meet this week.

Subcommittee #4 (State Administration and General Government) Cabaldon (D-Yolo) Chair, Niello (R-Fair Oaks), and Smallwood-Cuevas (D-Los Angeles)

Secretary of State Business “Fees” Support State Programs. The subcommittee discussed budget requests from the Secretary of State (SOS), including use of fee revenue from the Business Fees Fund (Fund). Senator Roger Niello (R-Fair Oaks) inquired if the Fund had ever provided a loan to the General Fund. The SOS indicated that while the Fund has not provided loans per se, the Fund has authority to transfer fund balance in excess of over $1 million to the General Fund annually. Between 2011‑12 and 2020‑21, the General Fund received $180 million from the fee-supported fund. Senator Niello pointed out the use of fee revenue to support other state programs through the state General Fund appears to be a tax on California’s businesses. Clearly, the consistent and large transfers to the General Fund indicate that businesses have been paying higher fees than are necessary to support the SOS program. Those fees have been supporting other state programs as well, making the payments function more like taxes that should either be reduced or expressly authorized as taxes through a two-thirds vote of the legislature.

Subcommittee #5 (Corrections, Public Safety, Judiciary, Labor, and Transportation) Richardson (D- San Pedro) Chair, Seyarto (R-Murrieta), Wahab (D-Hayward), and Durazo (D-Los Angeles)

Governor’s San Quentin Rebrand Lacks Clear Plan. The subcommittee discussed the Governor’s proposal to activate the new learning complex at the San Quentin Rehabilitation Center (formerly San Quentin State Prison), but delayed voting until a later hearing. The Legislative Analyst’s Office (LAO) duly criticized the Governor’s lack of a clear plan with respect to San Quentin’s revamped mission. Specifically, the proposal would establish a bachelor’s degree program at the prison, despite less than five percent of inmates completing associate’s coursework when enrolled. The college providing San Quentin’s associate’s program advises that a bachelor’s program would compete for scarce classroom space and other resources, ultimately leading to fewer associate’s degrees earned, and even fewer inmates being eligible for entry into a bachelor’s program. Clearly, the Governor’s plans for San Quentin must be better fleshed out before the Legislature commits more state funds to programs there.

Capitol

Roseville

2200A Douglas Blvd, Ste 100 Roseville, CA 95661 Phone: (916) 772-0571 Fax: (916) 772-0589

Rancho Cordova

2729 Prospect Park Drive, Suite 130 Rancho Cordova, CA 95670 Phone: (916) 464-3980 Fax: (916) 464-3985

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

<d

Home

About Roger Biography Committees

Biography

Committees

Legislation Bill Search

Bill Search

Newsroom Press Releases District Messages In The News Audio / Video Photo Gallery

Press Releases

District Messages

In The News

Audio / Video

Photo Gallery

Contact Me Email the Senator My Offices District Map Subscribe

Email the Senator

My Offices

District Map

Subscribe

Budget Spotlight - 03/06/2025

Breadcrumb