All ten California State Senate Republicans today requested in a letter to the state’s two U.S. Senators – Adam Schiff and Alex Padilla – that they work to repeal an electric vehicle (EV) mandate in California that would outlaw non-plug-in hybrids and gasoline-powered vehicles by 2035. Click here to read the letter.

The letter states the mandate is discriminatory, arbitrary and poorly thought out and cites lack of a statewide charging station infrastructure, the high price of EVs, and the state’s already overtaxed and unreliable electrical grid as reasons to repeal the EV only mandate:

“It is simply unrealistic to believe that a reliable electric vehicle charging network of stations will be constructed and operational throughout the state by 2035,” the senators said in the letter. “Even if it were possible, the average Californian cannot afford to buy and charge an electric vehicle.”

Several of the state senators also issued additional statements requesting the repeal of the EV-only mandates:

“Californians are already struggling with high prices, particularly in rural and suburban areas of our state,” said Senator Marie Alvarado-Gil ( R-Jackson ). “They cannot simply get rid of their current vehicle and run out and buy an $80,000 EV. This mandate is an unrealistic pipedream of the wealthy coastal elites.”

“Families in California need to have a wide variety of options available to them for transportation,” said Senator Roger W. Niello ( R-Fair Oaks) . “This one-size-fits-all mandate is the wrong way to move into the future of clean energy vehicles.”

“This mandate is another example of out-of-touch bureaucrats trying to force their agenda on everyday Californians,” said Senator Kelly Seyarto ( R-Murrieta ). “Families can’t afford to gamble on expensive technology that depends on an unreliable electric grid. The state shouldn’t be dictating what kind of cars people are allowed to drive.”

“The wealthy governor from Marin County can afford to buy any expensive EV he wants, but most Californians don’t have that luxury,” said Senator Tony Strickland ( R-Huntington Beach) . “In the real world, it still doesn’t make economic or practical sense for most working families to buy an EV and try to keep it charged.”

Senate Republicans remain committed to cutting costs and helping families afford to stay in this state.

Capitol

Roseville

2200A Douglas Blvd, Ste 100 Roseville, CA 95661 Phone: (916) 772-0571 Fax: (916) 772-0589

Rancho Cordova

2729 Prospect Park Drive, Suite 130 Rancho Cordova, CA 95670 Phone: (916) 464-3980 Fax: (916) 464-3985

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

<d

Home

About Roger Biography Committees

Biography

Committees

Legislation Bill Search

Bill Search

Newsroom Press Releases District Messages In The News Audio / Video Photo Gallery

Press Releases

District Messages

In The News

Audio / Video

Photo Gallery

Contact Me Email the Senator My Offices District Map Subscribe

Email the Senator

My Offices

District Map

Subscribe

CA Senate Republicans ask US senators to repeal Newsom-backed electric vehicle mandate

Breadcrumb