With California facing a massive $68 billion deficit, Senate Minority Leader Brian W. Jones (R-San Diego) and Senate Budget Vice Chair Roger Niello (R-Fair Oaks) are urging the governor to act early to address the state’s worsening fiscal condition.

In a letter today to the governor, they explained, “making prudent adjustments to the current year’s General Fund budget would help prevent the fiscal condition of the state’s finances from getting worse.”

You can read the entire letter here .

“This budget deficit will impact every California resident and doesn’t matter whether you’re a Republican or Democrat,” said Leader Jones. “That’s why we must roll up our sleeves and work together to bring spending in line with revenues.”

Leader Jones and Senator Niello stated in their letter to the governor that “failing to act now will lead to increased instability in future budgets and impact the functions and services the state provides. Including accelerated action proposals in your January budget will help the state achieve this aim.”

“I cautioned during the budget process last year that we need to show more fiscal restraint. The majority party ignored those warnings and passed an unsustainable budget based on unrealistic revenue assumptions,” said Senator Niello. “Now in the face of a massive deficit, a realistic and prudent spending plan is the only solution".

Capitol

Roseville

2200A Douglas Blvd, Ste 100 Roseville, CA 95661 Phone: (916) 772-0571 Fax: (916) 772-0589

Rancho Cordova

2729 Prospect Park Drive, Suite 130 Rancho Cordova, CA 95670 Phone: (916) 464-3980 Fax: (916) 464-3985

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

<d

Home

About Roger Biography Committees

Biography

Committees

Legislation Bill Search

Bill Search

Newsroom Press Releases District Messages In The News Audio / Video Photo Gallery

Press Releases

District Messages

In The News

Audio / Video

Photo Gallery

Contact Me Email the Senator My Offices District Map Subscribe

Email the Senator

My Offices

District Map

Subscribe

California Senate Republicans Urge Early Action to Address State’s $68 Billion Deficit

Breadcrumb