Today, California Legislative Republican Leaders announced budget action addressing the ongoing wave of illegal and violent protests on California state colleges and universities. Click here to watch a video recording of the announcement.

Specifically, Senate Minority Leader Jones ( R-San Diego ) and Assembly Republican Leader James Gallagher ( R-Yuba City ) called to revoke or reduce state funding of universities’ Administrations that fail to ensure campus safety and prevent unlawful activities. Additionally, the leaders proposed cutting state-funded grants for students found guilty and suspended for their involvement in these illegal acts.

“Violence and illegal activity of any kind is NOT protected by the First Amendment,” said Leader Jones. “The Administrations must swiftly regain control of the situation and guarantee a secure learning environment for our students. Their failure to control the illegal protests is unacceptable, particularly considering the substantial taxpayer funding allocated to our public universities. If the Administrations continue to allow this lawlessness, we must take action to reduce or rescind their state funding. Taxpayers should not be bankrolling administrations that falter in upholding law and order on campus.”

“All Californians have a right to express their views but that right ends when you carry out acts of violence, destruction of property, and trample upon the right of others, the rights of fellow students to learn,” said Leader Gallagher. “It’s outrageous that school administrations did nothing while all of this transpired for weeks on end and it’s time to hold school officials and responsible students accountable for what’s happened across college campuses.”

﻿ Jones and Gallagher are united in condemning violent protests that have invaded college and university campuses in California and across the United States. Administrators have done nothing for days or even weeks and allowed protests to escalate into lawlessness and violence.

Capitol Office

1021 O Street, Room 7640 Sacramento, CA 95814 Phone: (916) 651-4040 Fax: (916) 651-4940

Scripps Ranch Office

10650 Treena Street #110 San Diego, CA 92131 Phone: (858) 547-3818

Escondido Office

720 N. Broadway, Suite 110 Escondido, CA 92025 Phone: (760) 796-4655

facebook Facebook

twitter Twitter

instagram Instagram

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

Home

About Brian Biography

Biography

Legislation My Legislation Committees Bill Search

My Legislation

Committees

Bill Search

Newsroom Releases/Editorials In The News Audio/Video Are You Kidding Me? Photos Media Kit

Releases/Editorials

In The News

Audio/Video

Are You Kidding Me?

Photos

Media Kit

Contact Me Certificate Request District Internship Program District Map E-mail the Senator Legislative Proposal My Offices Subscribe to the Mailing List

Certificate Request

District Internship Program

District Map

E-mail the Senator

Legislative Proposal

My Offices

Subscribe to the Mailing List

California Republican Leaders Announce Budget Action Addressing Illegal and Violent Protests on College Campuses

More News

ICYMI

View All

Breadcrumb

Aug 6
California Republicans’ Growing Impact on Social Media
Jul 16
Leader Jones Stands on Steps of the Capitol Opposing the Anti-Charter School Bill
Jul 16
AB 84 Charter Schools Press Conference
Jul 15
Leader Jones Demands Accountability on Dangerous Sexually Violent Predator Program

Jun 17
2025
$8-a-gallon gas? Senate Minority Leader Brian W. Jones requests audit of gas price hikes
Jun 9
2025
Nixed bill could have prevented LA unrest, California minority leader says
Jun 8
2025
California lawmaker warns Menendez brothers' case is driving return of bill to release thousands of killers
Jun 3
2025
Ramona nonprofit, resident recognized with Senate District 40 awards