SACRAMENTO – Outgoing Senate Republican Leader Patricia Bates (R-Laguna Niguel) and Senate Republican Leader-Elect Shannon Grove (R-Bakersfield) announced today that the Senate Republican Caucus has unanimously elected Senator Brian Jones (R-Santee) as the new Caucus Chair, effective March 1st.

"I congratulate Brian Jones and also commend Jim Nielsen for being a great partner and co-leader during my tenure as Senate Republican Leader,” said Senate Republican Leader Bates.

Leader-Elect Grove said, “Senator Jones and I have a great working relationship that began while we served in the Assembly. I have great respect for him and the strengths he brings to the Republican Caucus leadership team.”

Senator Jones said, “I look forward to working with incoming Senate Republican Leader Shannon Grove to consistently and effectively communicate and advocate for the policies of the Senate Republican Caucus. I also commit to help all Senators, and particularly Senate President pro-Tem Toni Atkins, in the continued smooth operation of the Senate.”

Senator Jones replaces outgoing Caucus Chair Senator Jim Nielsen (R-Tehama) who will remain in a leadership role as “Dean of the Legislature” and Vice-Chair of the Senate Budget and Fiscal Review Committee.

Senator Nielsen said, “Congratulations to Senator Jones for being elected as Chair of the Senate Republican Caucus. I look forward to working with him.”

The Caucus Chair is the number two position in the Republican leadership structure. Senator Jones will assist the Leader in overseeing caucus operations, advancing the Republican message, and achieving the Caucus’ legislative goals.

Capitol Office

1021 O Street, Room 7640 Sacramento, CA 95814 Phone: (916) 651-4040 Fax: (916) 651-4940

Scripps Ranch Office

10650 Treena Street #110 San Diego, CA 92131 Phone: (858) 547-3818

Escondido Office

720 N. Broadway, Suite 110 Escondido, CA 92025 Phone: (760) 796-4655

facebook Facebook

twitter Twitter

instagram Instagram

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

Home

About Brian Biography

Biography

Legislation My Legislation Committees Bill Search

My Legislation

Committees

Bill Search

Newsroom Releases/Editorials In The News Audio/Video Are You Kidding Me? Photos Media Kit

Releases/Editorials

In The News

Audio/Video

Are You Kidding Me?

Photos

Media Kit

Contact Me Certificate Request District Internship Program District Map E-mail the Senator Legislative Proposal My Offices Subscribe to the Mailing List

Certificate Request

District Internship Program

District Map

E-mail the Senator

Legislative Proposal

My Offices

Subscribe to the Mailing List

California Senate Republicans Unanimously Elect Senator Brian Jones as Republican Caucus Chair

More News

ICYMI

View All

Breadcrumb

Aug 6
California Republicans’ Growing Impact on Social Media
Jul 16
Leader Jones Stands on Steps of the Capitol Opposing the Anti-Charter School Bill
Jul 16
AB 84 Charter Schools Press Conference
Jul 15
Leader Jones Demands Accountability on Dangerous Sexually Violent Predator Program

Jun 17
2025
$8-a-gallon gas? Senate Minority Leader Brian W. Jones requests audit of gas price hikes
Jun 9
2025
Nixed bill could have prevented LA unrest, California minority leader says
Jun 8
2025
California lawmaker warns Menendez brothers' case is driving return of bill to release thousands of killers
Jun 3
2025
Ramona nonprofit, resident recognized with Senate District 40 awards