Today, Senate Minority Leader Brian W. Jones (R-San Diego) and all members of the California Senate Republican Caucus sent a letter to the Senate President pro Tempore requesting that she retract the invitation to a member of the “ Sisters of Perpetual Indulgence ” during the Senate’s ceremony on Senate Resolution 33, which is planned for Monday, June 5.

Leader Jones issued the following statement on behalf of the California Senate Republican Caucus:

“The California Senate Republican Caucus strongly condemns the invitation to honor ‘Sister Roma,’ also known as Michael Williams, who is characterized as ‘one of the most outspoken and globally recognized members of San Francisco's Sisters of Perpetual Indulgence.'

“The Sisters of Perpetual Indulgence is well-known for their public denigration of the Catholic Faith and have long engaged in outrageous displays of mockery and ridicule against more than a billion Catholics worldwide.

“By inviting a prominent leader of this hateful group, Senate Democrats have shown a blatant disregard for the 10 million Catholic Californians in our state. Were this group to spread hateful messages about Jews, Muslims, Hindus, or any other religion, Senate Democrats would certainly not extend this invitation.

“Frankly, it’s a slap in the face to Catholics who cherish their faith and hold it as a cornerstone of their identity. Sister Roma and the Sisters of Perpetual Indulgence do not share the Senate’s values of tolerance and understanding, and honoring them on the Senate Floor is simply inexcusable.

“Californians expect this legislative body to minimize distractions like Sister Roma’s invitation and focus on tackling the countless issues that continue to go unresolved across the state. Senate Republicans stand ready to work with our Democrat colleagues to fix California.”

Capitol Office

1021 O Street, Room 7640 Sacramento, CA 95814 Phone: (916) 651-4040 Fax: (916) 651-4940

Scripps Ranch Office

10650 Treena Street #110 San Diego, CA 92131 Phone: (858) 547-3818

Escondido Office

720 N. Broadway, Suite 110 Escondido, CA 92025 Phone: (760) 796-4655

facebook Facebook

twitter Twitter

instagram Instagram

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

Home

About Brian Biography

Biography

Legislation My Legislation Committees Bill Search

My Legislation

Committees

Bill Search

Newsroom Releases/Editorials In The News Audio/Video Are You Kidding Me? Photos Media Kit

Releases/Editorials

In The News

Audio/Video

Are You Kidding Me?

Photos

Media Kit

Contact Me Certificate Request District Internship Program District Map E-mail the Senator Legislative Proposal My Offices Subscribe to the Mailing List

Certificate Request

District Internship Program

District Map

E-mail the Senator

Legislative Proposal

My Offices

Subscribe to the Mailing List

California Senate Republicans Condemn Inexcusable Invitation to Leader of Anti-Catholic Group

More News

ICYMI

View All

Breadcrumb

Aug 6
California Republicans’ Growing Impact on Social Media
Jul 16
Leader Jones Stands on Steps of the Capitol Opposing the Anti-Charter School Bill
Jul 16
AB 84 Charter Schools Press Conference
Jul 15
Leader Jones Demands Accountability on Dangerous Sexually Violent Predator Program

Jun 17
2025
$8-a-gallon gas? Senate Minority Leader Brian W. Jones requests audit of gas price hikes
Jun 9
2025
Nixed bill could have prevented LA unrest, California minority leader says
Jun 8
2025
California lawmaker warns Menendez brothers' case is driving return of bill to release thousands of killers
Jun 3
2025
Ramona nonprofit, resident recognized with Senate District 40 awards