Today, Senate Republican Leader Shannon Grove (R-Bakersfield) released the following statement after the California Supreme Court issued a written ruling in the case of Patterson v Padilla .  This lawsuit was brought by the California Republican Party challenging the constitutionality of Senate Bill 27.

Signed into law by Governor Newsom in July, SB 27 requires Presidential and Gubernatorial candidates to release five years of their federal income tax returns in order to run in the March 2020 Primary Election in California.

“Today’s final ruling handed down by the California Supreme Court is a victory for Californians. Republicans have repeatedly voiced our position that the Democrats’ Presidential Disclosure law is unconstitutional and an attempt to tamper with the Presidential primary by suppressing Republican voter turn-out. Today, the justices of the State Supreme Court validated our concerns and sided with us.

“The Golden State is the fifth largest economy in the world, yet the priorities of California Democrats and the governor are out of touch with California’s needs. There are real issues that need to be addressed, such as keeping the power on for families, making housing affordable, and tackling the out-of-control homeless crisis. Instead of combatting these problems, Democrats continue to pursue bad legislation, like SB 27, which is unconstitutional, a waste of taxpayer money, and a direct attack on democracy,” said Senate Republican Leader Shannon Grove.

Capitol Office

1021 O Street, Room 7150 Sacramento, CA 95814 Phone: (916) 651-4012 Fax: (916) 651-4916

Bakersfield Office

5701 Truxtun Ave., Suite 150 Bakersfield, CA 93309 Phone: (661) 323-0443 Fax: (661) 323-0446

Fresno Office

567 W. Shaw Ave., Suite A-3 Fresno, CA 93704 Phone:  559-243-8580

facebook Facebook

twitter Twitter

instagram Instagram

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

Home

About Shannon Biography Committees 12th Senate District Map

Biography

Committees

12th Senate District Map

Legislation My Legislation Bill Search Submit a Legislative Proposal

My Legislation

Bill Search

Submit a Legislative Proposal

Newsroom Releases / Editorials Photos

Releases / Editorials

Photos

Resources California Senate Fellows Program Coronavirus Information Education Register to Vote Unclaimed Property Veteran Resources

California Senate Fellows Program

Coronavirus Information

Education

Register to Vote

Unclaimed Property

Veteran Resources

Contact me My Offices E-mail the Senator Subscribe

My Offices

E-mail the Senator

Subscribe

California Supreme Court Rules Democrats' Law Pushing for Presidential Income Tax Disclosure is Unconstitutional

More News

View All

Breadcrumb

Aug 29
Senator Shannon Grove Celebrates Advancement of Key Bills for Special Education and Rural Healthcare, Expresses Disappointment Over Scrapping of Leno’s Law
Aug 27
VIDEO: Celebrity advocate Paris Hilton calls for passage of child protection measure ahead of key vote
Aug 25
Senator Shannon Grove and Assemblyman David Tangipa  Honor Retired NFL Quarterback, Derek Carr
Aug 21
Senator Shannon Grove opposes Democrats' attempt to override the will of California voters