Today, Senate Minority Leader Brian W. Jones ( R-San Diego ) and members of the California Senate Republican Caucus delivered a letter to the California Public Utilities Commission (CPUC) expressing serious concerns about the so-called “fixed-charge” electricity price proposal program proposed by PG&E, SCE, and SDG&E. The three Investor Owned Utilities (IOUs) in California have submitted a joint proposal to the CPUC that includes a fixed-charge billing system for electrical bills based on household income.

"The utility companies’ ‘fixed-charge’ proposal is nothing but a shameful attempt to exploit and rip off residential customers,’” said Senate Minority Leader Brian W. Jones . “Another name for this proposal could be the ‘Hard Work Utility Tax,’ as it is an unjust and regressive plan that fails to recognize the differences in energy usage among households and unfairly burdens lower-income families. California Senate Republicans are urging the CPUC to vigorously scrutinize and ultimately reject the utility companies’ plan to squeeze Californians even more."

“The proposal by the big three energy companies to create a fixed-rate fee structure is crazy. It will make electricity even more expensive and living in California less affordable. Californians already pay energy rates that are up to 80 percent higher than the national average, and schemes like this are what make it that way,” said Senator Brian Dahle ( R-Bieber ), Vice Chair of the Senate Energy, Utilities, and Communications Committee.

Below are excerpts of the letter. Click here to read the entire letter.

“… Under the IOUs’ plan, low-income families could be on the hook for hundreds of dollars of additional yearly utility fees, regardless of their electricity usage. This move not only contradicts the principles of fair pricing and consumer protection, but also discourages energy conservation and sustainable living. …

… We are well aware that the whole concept of California considering a “fixed-charge” energy pricing policy was concocted by majority party legislators last session in a gut-and-amend measure, Assembly Bill 205 (2022), jammed through the legislative process in three days with no real deliberation, discussion, or debate in policy committees.

… AB 205, like most rushed, primarily party-line mandates, was flawed, and the subsequent law needs to be amended or repealed. While the CPUC cannot amend or repeal laws, it is something we will encourage our majority-party colleagues to consider. . …”

Capitol Office

1021 O Street, Room 7640 Sacramento, CA 95814 Phone: (916) 651-4040 Fax: (916) 651-4940

Scripps Ranch Office

10650 Treena Street #110 San Diego, CA 92131 Phone: (858) 547-3818

Escondido Office

720 N. Broadway, Suite 110 Escondido, CA 92025 Phone: (760) 796-4655

facebook Facebook

twitter Twitter

instagram Instagram

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

Home

About Brian Biography

Biography

Legislation My Legislation Committees Bill Search

My Legislation

Committees

Bill Search

Newsroom Releases/Editorials In The News Audio/Video Are You Kidding Me? Photos Media Kit

Releases/Editorials

In The News

Audio/Video

Are You Kidding Me?

Photos

Media Kit

Contact Me Certificate Request District Internship Program District Map E-mail the Senator Legislative Proposal My Offices Subscribe to the Mailing List

Certificate Request

District Internship Program

District Map

E-mail the Senator

Legislative Proposal

My Offices

Subscribe to the Mailing List

California Senate Republicans Blast Proposed Income-Based Utility Program, Calling it a ‘Hard Work Utility Tax’

More News

ICYMI

View All

Breadcrumb

Aug 6
California Republicans’ Growing Impact on Social Media
Jul 16
Leader Jones Stands on Steps of the Capitol Opposing the Anti-Charter School Bill
Jul 16
AB 84 Charter Schools Press Conference
Jul 15
Leader Jones Demands Accountability on Dangerous Sexually Violent Predator Program

Jun 17
2025
$8-a-gallon gas? Senate Minority Leader Brian W. Jones requests audit of gas price hikes
Jun 9
2025
Nixed bill could have prevented LA unrest, California minority leader says
Jun 8
2025
California lawmaker warns Menendez brothers' case is driving return of bill to release thousands of killers
Jun 3
2025
Ramona nonprofit, resident recognized with Senate District 40 awards