SACRAMENTO –Today California Legislative Republicans delivered an urgent letter to Governor Newsom calling on him to take action within his authority to avoid the anticipated surge in gas prices. California Legislative Republicans oppose what many are calling ‘Gavin’s New Gas Tax’ which is scheduled for its first hearing in the Legislature tomorrow .

“California families are frustrated with high gas prices,” said Assemblyman Greg Wallis ( R- Bermuda Dunes ) . “Delaying the switch to summer-blend fuel provides some much needed relief from the pocketbook pain we are experiencing at the pump in addition to soaring grocery store prices and utility bills.”

Last year, gas prices soared as high as $7 a gallon in some areas of the state, devastating family budgets and driving up the cost of living. Despite a dip from last summer’s high, gas prices are expected to rise again soon to over $5 a gallon.

The letter sent by both Assembly and Senate Republicans calls on the Governor to:

Delay the transition from winter-blend fuel to summer-blend fuel

Extend the suspension of the diesel tax

Delay the annual gas tax increase that is scheduled to take effect on July 1 st

According to AAA, California motorists are now paying $4.73 for a gallon of unleaded gas . Last summer when prices soared, Californians ended up paying as much as $2.60 per gallon more for gas than the national average.

“With high grocery prices, outrageous utility bills, housing prices that force families to flee, and unbearable inflation, Californians need relief wherever they can get it,” said Senator Rosilicie Ochoa Bogh ( R-Yucaipa ) . “No one should have to make the choice between filling up their tank and putting food on the table.”

“California drivers are struggling with high gas prices, and if the summer-blend mandate moves forward as planned, things will only get worse,” said Assembly Republican Leader James Gallagher ( R-Yuba City ) . “We need greater flexibility to prevent gas prices from spiking – this simple step will provide that while reducing the burden on cash-strapped Californians.”

“Cutting costs at the pump should be a no brainer, yet Californians are facing another gas tax increase. Families can’t afford a summer of record-high prices again. We’re calling on the governor to act and suspend the tax increase before gas prices skyrocket,” said Senate Minority Leader Brian W. Jones ( R-San Diego ).

This request comes at an urgent time since refineries are already starting to prepare for the transition from the winter-blend to summer-blend. In addition to sending this letter, Legislative Republicans are urging Californians to contact the Governor’s office and ask for his support for these three immediate actions.

Click here to view the letter to Governor Newsom.