SACRAMENTO-
Legislative Republicans
respond to action taken today by the California Public Utilities Commission (CPUC) as they approved a request to provide financial relief for Californians facing high natural gas and electricity bills:
“Californians all across our state have been devastated by the recent spike in home heating bills. My office alone has been inundated with concerned citizens worried about making ends meet because of these unexpected price jumps. I am pleased to see CPUC take appropriate action that myself and my Orange County colleagues called for. We must do all we can to help lower the cost of living in California and that includes lowering basic home heating and gas bills.”
-Assemblywoman Laurie Davies (R-Laguna Niguel)
“The CPUC heard the demands of the California Senate Republicans and adopted this program to bring immediate relief to struggling families who have seen their utility bills skyrocket. My colleagues and I will continue to advocate for our constituents and remain committed to easing the burden on Californians who are still recovering from the economic effects of the pandemic and rising inflation.”
-Senator Janet Nguyen, Senate Minority Caucus Chair (R-Huntington Beach)
“The CPUC heard the demands of the California Senate Republicans and adopted this program to bring immediate relief to struggling families who have seen their utility bills skyrocket. My colleagues and I will continue to advocate for our constituents and remain committed to easing the burden on Californians who are still recovering from the economic effects of the pandemic and rising inflation.”
-Assemblyman Tri Ta (R-Westminster)
“I am encouraged and thankful the California Public Utilities Commission heard our call and has now agreed to adopt our recommendation allowing the Climate Credit to be disbursed to Californians immediately. This credit will have a positive impact on the lives of my constituents but more needs to be done. I look forward to continuing this work with the CPUC to ensure Californians are not smothered under high energy prices.”
-Senator Rosilicie Ochoa Bogh (R-Yucaipa)
As a response to natural gas prices skyrocketing 128% in the last month,
Assembly Republicans
and
Senate Republicans
delivered letters to the CPUC to request that the Commission advance credits that will provide relief to renters and homeowners who are now struggling to pay their heating bills.
The CPUC issued an initial response to the
Assembly Republicans
‘ and
Senate Republicans
‘ request to move up the timing of the credit relief. During a scheduled meeting today, the Commission approved the “Modification of Timing of Electric and Gas Climate Credits,” given this unprecedented hike in utility rates.