Last week, a group of California Senate and Assembly Republicans asked President Trump to focus immigration raids on undocumented violent criminals, and urged the President to implement policies that will modernize our immigration process. The letter sent to the President was signed by six Republican members of the California State Senate and Assembly.

“Decades of failed policies have led us to the difficult situation we face today,” said Senator Suzette Martinez Valladares (R-Santa Clarita) . “We are now urging the Administration to prioritize public safety, while advancing immigration and visa policies that strengthen our economy, secure our borders, and keep our communities safe.”

The letter stated, “We fully support efforts to identify, detain and deport undocumented violent criminals.” The legislators also conveyed that employers in their districts had concerns about the recent raids, creating widespread fear among workers regardless of immigration status, resulting in many not showing up for work.

The lawmakers continued, “We urge you to direct ICE and DHS to focus their enforcement operations on criminal immigrants and when possible, avoid the kinds of sweeping raids that instill fear and disrupt the workplace.”

The legislators also joined together to call on the President to, “modernize our immigration process to allow non-criminal undocumented immigrants with longstanding ties to our communities a path toward legal status.” In addition, they called for the expansion of the H-2A and H-2B visa programs to authorize more legal guest workers across the entire economy.

The letter stated, “America needs a system that reflects both compassion and lawfulness – one that upholds sovereignty while recognizing the reality on the ground.”

The letter comes in the aftermath of national policies that ushered over ten million illegal immigrants into the United States from 2021 thru 2024, overwhelming states and local governments, and leaving them to navigate the influx of immigrants on their own.

The legislators urged President Trump to, “ Focus deportations on criminals, and support legal immigration and visa policies that will build a strong economy, secure our borders and protect our communities.”

Capitol

Valencia Office

25060 West Ave Stanford, Suite 130 Valencia, CA 91355 Phone: (661) 257-1204

Lancaster Office

42505 10th St West Suite 109 Lancaster, CA 93534 Phone: (661) 729-6232

Adelanto Office

11600 Air Expressway Adelanto, CA 92301 Phone: (760) 246-2911

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

<d

Home

About Suzette Biography Committees District Map

Biography

Committees

District Map

Legislation My Legislation Bill Search

My Legislation

Bill Search

Newsroom Releases / Opinions Media Kit

Releases / Opinions

Media Kit

Contact Me Email the Senator My Offices

Email the Senator

My Offices

California Republican Lawmakers Urge Immigration Enforcement to Focus on Violent Criminals & Call for Modernizing Immigration Process

Breadcrumb