Published in the Orange County Register on March 6, 2019 at 11:49 am

If I was to tell you that you needed to be tested on your “ABCs” you would probably think it would be easy, right? – Wrong! In California, if you are an employer being asked to take this test, you likely have a big problem.

This far-reaching ruling significantly changes the working situation of two million Californians who currently choose to be their own boss. It will impact contractors from all types of industries such as barbering and cosmetology, agriculture, education, health care, construction, technology, transportation, and art just to name a few. And, it will disproportionally affect the young, diverse and educated workforce who are increasingly choosing to be freelancers and independent contractors.

Being a freelancer or independent contractor appeals to many who wish to make a living on their own terms, have flexibility in work time and location, or earn extra money. According to a 2018 Bureau of Labor Statistics Economic report, 79 percent of independent contractors prefer their work situation to traditional employment and a 2017 survey revealed that most full-time workers who left their jobs made more money as a freelancer within a year.

Single moms who work on their own accord while raising their children don’t want to come into the office for 8 hours a day and choose to work as a contractor. College students who work in the gig economy who have to drive after class to afford books will now have to create their own business as ‘John Doe Enterprises.’ These workers choose this work situation because it works for them, and they can be in control of their work-life balance. I’m a business owner, and from my point of view, it is not easy to start your own business in this state. They are simply going to choose to find work elsewhere, and not continue these services. I get my hair done, and so do millions of women in California   My salon owner is afraid for her business’s future because her  stylists now  have to become an employee. Those who do your hair will no longer be able to set their own appointments, charge their own rates, or be independent. Instead, they will have to work eight hour schedules and adhere to their employer’s rules. This fear is a reality for hairstylists and more because of a 2018 California Supreme Court ruling, known as the Dynamex decision which adopted an “ABC test” for employment status.

This test determines whether a person is an employee or an independent contractor. Prior to this decision, employment status was determined by a test that accounted for the diversity of California industries and workers.

Whether a worker is an employee or an independent contractor is an important distinction because it determines employment rules and regulations, including rules related to hours and wages. California has many diverse industries with a diverse group of workers. The Dynamex decision eliminates the flexibility for independent contractors to exist in many professions.

Think about how this decision is affecting the entire economy and the way that people work. Hardworking citizens are under attack because of the Dynamex decision. It has always been the responsibility of the legislative branch to create laws, the executive branch to approve and enforce laws, and the judicial branch to interpret them. However, in this case, the California Supreme Court overreached and did not just interpret the law; they re-wrote it. California is the only state to have enacted such a strict standard by judicial authority. This should not be the case.

The idea behind the Dynamex decision was to protect employees who needed to be protected, but the unintended consequences are detrimental to many industries. The only easy thing about this judicial decision to apply an ‘ABC’ test is that the Legislature must get involved. The Legislature must take this decision seriously, act appropriately to protect workers, and exercise its authority over labor law that was inappropriately enacted in the judicial system.

As an independent contractor in California, the ABC’s are far from as easy as 1, 2, and 3. If California is really the land of opportunity, the Legislature needs to protect workers’ rights and ensure they have the ability to choose when they work, where they work, what they work on, and how much they earn.

Capitol Office

1021 O Street, Room 7150 Sacramento, CA 95814 Phone: (916) 651-4012 Fax: (916) 651-4916

Bakersfield Office

5701 Truxtun Ave., Suite 150 Bakersfield, CA 93309 Phone: (661) 323-0443 Fax: (661) 323-0446

Fresno Office

567 W. Shaw Ave., Suite A-3 Fresno, CA 93704 Phone:  559-243-8580

facebook Facebook

twitter Twitter

instagram Instagram

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

Home

About Shannon Biography Committees 12th Senate District Map

Biography

Committees

12th Senate District Map

Legislation My Legislation Bill Search Submit a Legislative Proposal

My Legislation

Bill Search

Submit a Legislative Proposal

Newsroom Releases / Editorials Photos

Releases / Editorials

Photos

Resources California Senate Fellows Program Coronavirus Information Education Register to Vote Unclaimed Property Veteran Resources

California Senate Fellows Program

Coronavirus Information

Education

Register to Vote

Unclaimed Property

Veteran Resources

Contact me My Offices E-mail the Senator Subscribe

My Offices

E-mail the Senator

Subscribe

California Legislature should protect, not limit, workers' freedom of choice

More News

View All

Breadcrumb

Aug 29
Senator Shannon Grove Celebrates Advancement of Key Bills for Special Education and Rural Healthcare, Expresses Disappointment Over Scrapping of Leno’s Law
Aug 27
VIDEO: Celebrity advocate Paris Hilton calls for passage of child protection measure ahead of key vote
Aug 25
Senator Shannon Grove and Assemblyman David Tangipa  Honor Retired NFL Quarterback, Derek Carr
Aug 21
Senator Shannon Grove opposes Democrats' attempt to override the will of California voters