As a little girl, my grandparents played a large role in our lives. My maternal grandmother significantly influenced my upbringing. I spent countless days and nights observing and learning from her. Formal education after third grade was not an option for my grandmother, who helped rear me, but she understood the value of an education and always pushed me to learn and discover. Through endless talks, laughs, and sweet gestures of love, I appreciated her more and more as I got older and still carry her in my heart wherever I go.

Now watching my parents get older, along with many other loved ones, I am reminded of how quickly time is moving by and what I can do to help them live full, vibrant lives as older Americans.

In May, we observe Older Americans Month. Led by the Administration for Community Living of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, the month is a time for us to recognize and encourage the contributions small and large that older adults make to our families and communities and for us to appreciate how seniors’ time, experience and talents can enrich those around them.

Older Americans Month also helps raise awareness concerning elder abuse and neglect. As we age, the risk of abuse and neglect increases. One way to protect against that is for seniors to maintain involvement in community activities and social activities, which helps maintain overall health and vitality.

In fact, more and more of us will appreciate celebrating Older Americans Month in the coming years because we are rapidly becoming an aging nation.

Thanks largely to the aging of the Baby Boomer generation – those born between 1946 and 1964 – our nation’s 65-and-older population has grown by a little over 34% in the past decade. By 2034, for the first time in U.S. history, older adults are projected to outnumber children. That increase bumped the national median age from 37.2 years in 2010 to 38.4 in 2019.

Here in California, the Department of Aging projects that by 2060 the population aged 60 and older will grow more than three times as fast as the total population. The population aged 85 and older will increase by a whopping 489%.

Older Americans these days are not the same as older Americans of decades past. Overall, they’re generally healthier, more active, working longer, trying new things, engaging in their communities, striving for wellness, and focusing on independence.

However, aging is a process. One that is not always without some indignities. Planning for one’s golden years is key, and the state’s Department of Aging has a vast amount of information and resources to help do so.

The department administers programs serving older adults, adults with disabilities, family caregivers, and residents in long-term care facilities throughout the state. The services provided locally by Area Agencies on Aging, Medi-Cal Community Based Adult Services centers, or other contracted agencies.

Next month I am collaborating with Menifee Senior Advisory Committee and cohosting a “Senior Scam” seminar. This seminar is free of charge and will be held on Friday, June 3 - 9 am to 11 am at the Kay Ceniceros Senior Center located at 29995 Evans Road, Menifee 92587.

Representatives from the Riverside County District Attorney’s Office; Riverside County DPSS CARE (Curtailing Abuse Related to the Elderly) Team; Senior Medicare Patrol, and Menifee Police Department will be in attendance.

I encourage you to reach out in two directions this month. First, think about your golden years; where do you want to be, and how would you like to live? Start researching and planning now.

Second, reach out to a senior in your life or community; let them know how much you appreciate them.  Find or create opportunities to let them share their wisdom, experience, and skills, particularly with younger generations. Recognizing their value will also enhance yours.

Capitol Office

1021 O Street, Room 7220 Sacramento, CA 95814 Phone: (916) 651-4019 Fax: (916) 651-4919

Redlands Office

1758 Orange Tree Lane, Suite B Redlands, CA 92374 Phone: (909) 335-0271 Fax: (909) 335-0282

facebook Facebook

twitter Twitter

instagram Instagram

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

Home

About Rosilicie My Legislation Current Legislation Legislative Accomplishments 2024 Legislative Accomplishments 2023 Legislative Accomplishments 2022-21 Bill Search Committees Biography

My Legislation Current Legislation Legislative Accomplishments 2024 Legislative Accomplishments 2023 Legislative Accomplishments 2022-21 Bill Search

Current Legislation

Legislative Accomplishments 2024

Legislative Accomplishments 2023

Legislative Accomplishments 2022-21

Bill Search

Committees

Biography

District District Map Virtual Insurance Town Hall Virtual PSPS Town Hall Wildfire Resources

District Map

Virtual Insurance Town Hall

Virtual PSPS Town Hall

Wildfire Resources

Newsroom Releases/Editorials

Releases/Editorials

Contact Me Constituent Services E-mail the Senator Look Ahead Mobile Office Hours My Offices State Agencies Subscribe

Constituent Services

E-mail the Senator

Look Ahead

Mobile Office Hours

My Offices

State Agencies

Subscribe

Cherishing the Older Adults in Our Lives

Breadcrumb