A recent survey by the Berkley Institute of Government Studies found that a vast majority of Californians support requiring a government ID to vote. A measure by Senator Choi would repeal a recently enacted section of the Elections Code, and allow local governments to once again enact voter ID requirements at their discretion.

“Californians have made it clear that they support requiring a government ID to vote,” said Senator Choi. “I introduced this bill to allow local control over the issue. It is a shame the Democrats in the legislature have turned against the will of their constituents.”

On Tuesday, Senator Choi motioned to withdraw SB 405 from the Senate Elections Committee to the Senate Floor. Fellow Republicans supported the move, while Democrat members overwhelmingly opposed even bringing the bill to a vote.

“This is a commonsense measure that protects the constitutional right of local governments to require proof of identification to vote,” Choi concluded.

Perhaps even more troubling is the nature of the committee where the bill was held. In the Senate Elections and Constitutional Amendments Committee, Senator Choi is the only Republican member. As with SB 405, this allows the committee to avoid even voting for bills, as the author cannot motion their own bill for a vote.

Sunshine is the best disinfectant and cowering from public votes makes it impossible to constituents to know where their representatives stand.

Capitol

District

3200 El Camino Real, Suite 230 Irvine, CA 92602 Phone: (714) 544-1035

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

<d

Home

About Dr. Choi Biography Committees

Biography

Committees

Legislation

Newsroom Releases / Opinions Important Updates Audio / Video Photo Gallery

Releases / Opinions

Important Updates

Audio / Video

Photo Gallery

Contact Me District Internship Program District Map Email the Senator My Offices

District Internship Program

District Map

Email the Senator

My Offices

Choi: Give the Voters What They Want!

Breadcrumb