SACRAMENTO – Today, five city and county officials joined Senate Republican Leader Shannon Grove ( R-Bakersfield ) in requesting the governor modify his stay-at-home order to allow local flexibility. In a letter addressed today to Governor Newsom, the local officials stated that they are following up on Leader Grove’s initial request to allow local governments the flexibility to reopen their economies if they can safely do so. Media can read the letter sent today by clicking here.

Leader Grove released the following statement:

“This Stay-At-Home order should not be a one-size-fits-all approach. A strategy that works for cities in Kern County won’t be ideal for Los Angeles or San Francisco. Local government should have the flexibility and discretion to navigate reopening stages in a timeline that works best for their communities.

“Many regions in California continue to see major progress in flattening the curve, and some communities have had no positive cases at all. The economic impact of the Stay-At-Home order on California families cannot be understated. It is imperative that Governor Newsom recognize the Golden State’s diversity and allow local leaders discretion in executing the reopening of their economies,” said Senate Republican Leader Shannon Grove.

Other Kern Leaders who joined Senator Grove in signing the letter include Taft Mayor Dave Noerr, Kern County Supervisors Mick Gleason, Zack Scrivner, Mike Maggard, and David Couch.

Click here for an audio recording of Senator Grove’s opinion on local control for this crisis. Password is SenSGrove.

Capitol Office

1021 O Street, Room 7150 Sacramento, CA 95814 Phone: (916) 651-4012 Fax: (916) 651-4916

Bakersfield Office

5701 Truxtun Ave., Suite 150 Bakersfield, CA 93309 Phone: (661) 323-0443 Fax: (661) 323-0446

Fresno Office

567 W. Shaw Ave., Suite A-3 Fresno, CA 93704 Phone:  559-243-8580

facebook Facebook

twitter Twitter

instagram Instagram

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

Home

About Shannon Biography Committees 12th Senate District Map

Biography

Committees

12th Senate District Map

Legislation My Legislation Bill Search Submit a Legislative Proposal

My Legislation

Bill Search

Submit a Legislative Proposal

Newsroom Releases / Editorials Photos

Releases / Editorials

Photos

Resources California Senate Fellows Program Coronavirus Information Education Register to Vote Unclaimed Property Veteran Resources

California Senate Fellows Program

Coronavirus Information

Education

Register to Vote

Unclaimed Property

Veteran Resources

Contact me My Offices E-mail the Senator Subscribe

My Offices

E-mail the Senator

Subscribe

City and County Officials Join Senator Grove in Urging Governor to Empower Local Government

More News

View All

Breadcrumb

Aug 29
Senator Shannon Grove Celebrates Advancement of Key Bills for Special Education and Rural Healthcare, Expresses Disappointment Over Scrapping of Leno’s Law
Aug 27
VIDEO: Celebrity advocate Paris Hilton calls for passage of child protection measure ahead of key vote
Aug 25
Senator Shannon Grove and Assemblyman David Tangipa  Honor Retired NFL Quarterback, Derek Carr
Aug 21
Senator Shannon Grove opposes Democrats' attempt to override the will of California voters