TRONA– Hundreds of residents and families packed Trona High School this morning to attend a town hall. In partnership with local, state, and federal agencies, Senator Shannon Grove (R-Bakersfield) delivered up-to-date information to assist those impacted by the earthquakes.

“It is imperative that our community members impacted by the earthquakes know where to turn for help. The local assistance center and many local, state, and federal agencies are here to help and provide resources.

“It is inspiring to hear the stories of our community coming together and supporting each other during this devastating time. We truly are united and resilient.

“First responders are still assessing damages, but I am confident that our communities will rebuild and come out even stronger,” said Senator Shannon Grove.

The following offices and their representatives were in attendance at today’s town hall:

Assemblyman Jay Obernolte

California Office of Emergency Services

California Department of Transportation

California Department of Insurance

American Red Cross

Searles Valley Minerals

San Bernardino County of Board of Supervisors

San Bernardino County Sheriff & County Fire Department

San Bernardino County Land Use Services, Public Works & Public Health

Pacific Gas & Electric

Representatives from the offices of: Rep. Kevin McCarthy, Rep. Paul Cook, Senator Dianne Feinstein and Senator Kamala Harris

Capitol Office

1021 O Street, Room 7150 Sacramento, CA 95814 Phone: (916) 651-4012 Fax: (916) 651-4916

Bakersfield Office

5701 Truxtun Ave., Suite 150 Bakersfield, CA 93309 Phone: (661) 323-0443 Fax: (661) 323-0446

Fresno Office

567 W. Shaw Ave., Suite A-3 Fresno, CA 93704 Phone:  559-243-8580

facebook Facebook

twitter Twitter

instagram Instagram

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

Home

About Shannon Biography Committees 12th Senate District Map

Biography

Committees

12th Senate District Map

Legislation My Legislation Bill Search Submit a Legislative Proposal

My Legislation

Bill Search

Submit a Legislative Proposal

Newsroom Releases / Editorials Photos

Releases / Editorials

Photos

Resources California Senate Fellows Program Coronavirus Information Education Register to Vote Unclaimed Property Veteran Resources

California Senate Fellows Program

Coronavirus Information

Education

Register to Vote

Unclaimed Property

Veteran Resources

Contact me My Offices E-mail the Senator Subscribe

My Offices

E-mail the Senator

Subscribe

Community Town Hall in Trona Provides Valuable Information for Earthquake Victims

More News

View All

Breadcrumb

Aug 29
Senator Shannon Grove Celebrates Advancement of Key Bills for Special Education and Rural Healthcare, Expresses Disappointment Over Scrapping of Leno’s Law
Aug 27
VIDEO: Celebrity advocate Paris Hilton calls for passage of child protection measure ahead of key vote
Aug 25
Senator Shannon Grove and Assemblyman David Tangipa  Honor Retired NFL Quarterback, Derek Carr
Aug 21
Senator Shannon Grove opposes Democrats' attempt to override the will of California voters