Senator Tony Strickland ( R-Huntington Beach ) warns residents of the Senate District 36 th of a proposed mandate from the South Coast Air Quality Management District (SCAQMD), which will significantly drive up the cost of housing and energy for Southern California families, renters, and small business owners. The proposed amendments to Rule 1111 and 1121 aim to replace natural gas furnaces and water heaters in favor of far more expensive all-electric units by 2026. According to the Cost of Living Council , the expense to upgrade to all-electric space and water heaters can range from $1,500 to $47,000 per household.

“It is never a good idea to impose excessive regulations, especially considering that the cost of living for Californians is 42% higher than the national average. Many residents in my district have expressed their struggles to afford basic necessities like food, rent, and gas due to the state’s already existing overregulation,” said Senator Strickland. “The South Coast Air Quality Management District creates this mandate with minimal transparency and input from Californians. I urge all residents in my district to voice their concerns about this extreme mandate before it is too late.”

Senator Strickland will have a staff member representing him at the SCAQMD hearing this Friday to discuss the stringent mandate and provide residents and business owners the same opportunity to participate, either in person or via Zoom.

WHAT:      SCAQMD Governing Board Meeting

WHEN:     June 6 at 9:00AM

WHERE:   Dr. William A. Burke Auditorium, South Coast AQMD Headquarters, 21865 Copley Drive, Diamond Bar, CA 91765 or over Zoom

Capitol:

District Office:

301 Main Street, Suite 212 Huntington Beach, CA 92648 (714) 374-4000

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

<d

Home

About Tony Biography Committees

Biography

Committees

Newsroom Releases / Opinions Newsletters Audio / Video Photos

Releases / Opinions

Newsletters

Audio / Video

Photos

Contact Me District Map My Offices Scheduling Requests

District Map

My Offices

Scheduling Requests

Costly new mandate by SCAQMD will hurt Californians, warns Senator Strickland

Breadcrumb