Santa Ana, Calif.
(January 20, 2021) – The County of Orange is opening its second regional COVID-19 Vaccine Super Point of Dispensing (POD) site at Soka University in Aliso Viejo on Saturday, January 23, 2021, starting at 8:00 am.
“Orange County is working around the clock to make the COVID-19 vaccine available to everyone who
wants it,” said Andrew Do, Chairman of the Orange County Board of Supervisors. “This second
vaccination site at Soka University will allow us to vaccinate thousands more residents every day.”
Orange County is moving quickly to make the COVID-19 vaccination available; however, the County faces ongoing supply limitations. The Orange County Health Care Agency is continuously requesting more doses from the State every day.
Named
Operation Independence
, the County is setting up regional vaccine points of dispensing (POD) sites. Due to the scope and size of these PODs, based on the high demand for vaccine, these sites are being referred to as County Super PODs. Since the Disneyland Resort Super POD site opened on January 13, there have been approximately 21,782 vaccines distributed to eligible Orange County residents and those working in Orange County.
“I am truly proud of all the work the Operation Independence Incident Management Team has done over the past two weeks to stand up the Super POD sites,” said Vice Chairman Doug Chaffee, Fourth District. “We understand that there are many residents who are anxious to receive the COVID-19 vaccine, and we encourage people to remain patient as we work to dispense our limited supply of vaccine to eligible individuals.”
New Super POD sites will open as the supply of COVID-19 vaccines available in the County increases. The County anticipates the need for at least five Super PODs located throughout the county. Additional Super POD sites will open in a phased approach, ensuring access to all Orange County residents.
“I am very pleased that we were able to partner with Soka University, located in the City of Aliso Viejo, to stand up the second Super POD site in the Fifth District,” said Supervisor Lisa Bartlett, Fifth District. “My district has a large number of seniors eligible to receive the vaccine under Phase 1A, and having a location in South County will prove extremely helpful in providing greater and more convenient access to the vaccine. I strongly encourage all residents to visit
www.COVIDVaccineFacts.com
for the latest information on who is currently eligible to receive the vaccination, and learn the facts about the vaccines’ safety and efficacy.”
Vaccines dispensed at County Super PODs are currently available for individuals who live and work in Orange County and fall within the
State’s Phase 1A
, all tiers, including persons age 65 and older.
Appointments are available through
Othena.com
based on vaccine availability. Eligible individuals with an appointment must present identification and proof of eligibility at the Super POD site to receive a vaccine. To view a list of those who are eligible to receive a vaccine, visit the OC Health Care Agency’s website:
https://occovid19.ochealthinfo.com/phased-approach-vaccine-distribution.
“We are excited to open up a second Super POD Site in Orange County, offering more critical access to the COVID-19 vaccine,” said Supervisor Donald P. Wagner, Third District. “We hope constituents understand vaccine supply is limited and demand is high; the County is working diligently to get what supply we have into the arms of those in Phase 1A. We want to thank everyone for their patience and reassure everyone there is light at the end of this tunnel.”
The Operation Independence Incident Management Team (IMT) was established on December 31, 2020. The IMT is a unified command with representatives from the Orange County Health Care Agency, the Orange County Fire Authority and other fire service agencies in Orange County, Orange County’s
Sheriff’s Department and other law enforcement agencies, the County of Orange County Executive Office (CEO) and other County agencies.
“We are proud to partner with the County of Orange and Soka University to be a part of this important step towards ending this pandemic. The opening of a Super POD site in the City of Aliso Viejo expands access to the COVID-19 vaccine for all residents across the county,” said Mayor Tiffany Ackley, City of Aliso Viejo.
“Soka University has trained as a County Point of Distribution (POD) site since 2007, so as we mark our 20th Anniversary in 2021, how appropriate that we can start this year in solidarity with the County to support our front line workers, first responders and community members in this important endeavor,” said Archibald E. Asawa, VP, Finance & Administration, Soka University of America.
For questions related to COVID-19, visit
http://www.ochealthinfo.com/novelcoronavirus
, or follow the HCA on Facebook (
@ochealthinfo
) and Twitter (
@ochealth
).
###