More must be done to protect crime victims and their families as many have experienced unwanted encounters with convicted perpetrators of crimes that upended their lives. To provide victims and their immediate families more security, Assemblymember Vince Fong (R-Central Valley) is championing Assembly Bill 313 which will expand victim protection services to the family of victims impacted by a crime.

“The detrimental effects of a crime oftentimes extend beyond just the victims and witnesses of a crime,” stated Assemblymember Fong. “This will help families of victims heal during a very difficult time and ensure they get expanded protections.”

Crime Victims United’s President Nina Salarno Besselman said, “Victims face trauma each and every day following the harm inflicted on them. Assemblyman Fong’s bill will help them feel more secured.”

Post-traumatic stress is common among victims and their families, which is only exacerbated through having unplanned encounters with convicted offenders. Families must also be able to request to receive protections as the detrimental effects of a crime often extend far beyond the offender and the victim.

Through extending access to Form 1707 protections, family members may request to have input in the conditions of an offender’s parole through the California Department of Corrections and Rehabilitation (CDCR).

AB 313 will codify Form 1707 protections for families of victims, those affected by a crime against a family member can access greater transparency within the CDCR system and provide certainty when perpetrators are released from prison. AB 313 passed the Assembly Public Safety Committee with unanimous support on Tuesday. AB 313 will move to Assembly Appropriations Committee for its consideration.

# # #

Contact Nghia.Nguyen@asm.ca.gov 916-813-8367

Assemblyman Vince Fong represents the 32 nd Assembly District, which encompasses Kern and Tulare Counties.

February 28, 2023

Press Release

October 26, 2023

October 18, 2023

October 16, 2023

Related Posts