Senate Democrats quietly killed the bipartisan Senate Bill 286 , also known as Mary Bella's Law, in the Senate Appropriations Committee by keeping it on the Suspense File—without a vote, without debate, and without accountability. Click here for the bill’s factsheet.

The bill would have closed a dangerous loophole in California’s Elderly Parole program that allows violent sex offenders to be released early. SB 286 is authored by Senate Minority Leader Brian W. Jones ( R-San Diego ) and coauthored by Assemblymember Stephanie Nguyen ( D-Elk Grove) .

“Dangerous Democrats have once again chosen violent sex offenders over the rights of victims and public safety,” said Leader Jones. “They didn’t even have the courage to vote. Instead, they relied on the most anti-democratic tactic in the country, the so-called ‘Appropriations Suspense File’, to kill a bipartisan bill behind closed doors. This was a chance to fix a broken system and Democrats killed it in the shadows to protect their political image instead of protecting survivors.”

In April, Leader Jones held a powerful press conference at the State Capitol alongside San Diego District Attorney Summer Stephan, Senator Suzette Martinez Valladares ( R-Santa Clarita) , Crime Victims United, and over 40 victims and victim advocates including Colleen Stan, known as the "Girl in the Box" from the Lifetime Movie, survivor of Cameron Hooker of Red Bluff, CA . The survivors courageously shared their personal stories of trauma and injustice. The emotional event made headlines and highlighted the urgent need to close the Elderly Parole loophole that allows violent sex offenders to be released decades early, often over the objections of prosecutors and victims. Click here for a video recording of the press conference.

A petition in support of SB 286 garnered 2,000 signatures statewide. Earlier this year, Mary Bella’s Law unanimously passed out of the Senate Public Safety Committee, click here for a video of the bill’s hearing.

Despite widespread, bipartisan support for the bill, during Friday’s Senate Appropriations Committee suspense hearing, Democrat leadership allowed votes on hundreds of bills, but blocked Mary Bella’s Law from even coming up for a vote. Without a vote at Friday’s hearing, the measure has no path to move forward this year.

“With violent crime on the rise and the public’s trust in government plummeting, Democrats had a choice: protect the people or protect predators. They chose predators,” continued Leader Jones. “Californians should be furious, and I will not stop fighting for the victims they continue to ignore.”

What Survivors Are Saying

“It’s disheartening that the Appropriations Committee can’t see how big this issue is,” said Bella Clark, survivor of Charles Mix of Riverside , and whom Mary Bella’s Law is named after. “I’m ready for legislators to start worrying about me, a victim, more than the man who made me one. It’s time for people to start speaking up, and calling their representatives to tell them that this decision isn’t what they want.”

“It is devastating to me that predators have more rights than I do,” said Johanna Call, survivor of Michael Dausey of Shasta County . “I have worked so hard to make my life as normal as possible. My predator is automatically released by simply having a birthday. A judge's sentence is how long they believe it will take to be rehabilitated. 88 years.”

“Those in authority are called to do the following: Proverbs 31:8-9 ‘Open your mouth for the mute, for the rights of all who are destitute. Open your mouth, judge righteously, defend the rights of the poor and needy.’ So when they won’t, we will,” said Mary Johnson, survivor of Cody Klemp of Moreno Valley , and whom Mary Bella’s Law is named after.

Background on California’s Elderly Parole for Violent Sex Offenders

The current Elderly Parole program was quietly expanded through a last-minute, gut-and-amend budget bill, Assembly Bill 3234 (Ting – 2020) , which lowered the age threshold for elderly parole from 60 years of age to 50 years of age. A loophole in that bill allows violent sex offenders to be eligible for elderly parole after serving only 20 years. Despite its major societal and fiscal impacts, AB 3234 was rushed through the process without a single Senate policy committee hearing. Proponents of the measure vowed that sex offenders and rapists would not be eligible for Elderly Parole, but ‘accidentally’ left out that key protection—and have refused to fix their mistake.

Since its passage, multiple rapists and child molesters have become eligible for Elderly Parole, forcing victims and their families to relive their trauma as they fight to keep their perpetrators behind bars.

“Releasing violent rapists under the so-called ‘elderly parole’ is not only an insult to victims but a grave danger to Californians,” said Leader Jones . “SB 286 finally would have corrected this failure and ensures that rapists and child molesters don’t have a ‘get out of jail free’ card just because they turned 50. Mary-Bella’s Law would have ensured the most sex violent offenders serve their full sentences, regardless of age, and puts the safety of Californians first.”

Below are several news articles highlighting recent violent sex offenders who will remain eligible for early release under the Elderly Parole program, despite hundreds of years left on their sentences:

Parole board considering release of rapist convicted in IE, originally sentenced to 170 years | ABC7

Girl in the Box: Cameron Hooker sexually violent predator case moves forward | ABC7 KRCR

Family fights child molester’s possible release in Southern California | KTLA5

Elderly Parole Program releases sex offender, survivor expresses concerns for her safety | ABC7 KRCR

Sacramento Serial Rapist Could Be Released From Prison Decades Early | CBS News

Capitol Office

1021 O Street, Room 7640 Sacramento, CA 95814 Phone: (916) 651-4040 Fax: (916) 651-4940

Scripps Ranch Office

10650 Treena Street #110 San Diego, CA 92131 Phone: (858) 547-3818

Escondido Office

720 N. Broadway, Suite 110 Escondido, CA 92025 Phone: (760) 796-4655

facebook Facebook

twitter Twitter

instagram Instagram

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

Home

About Brian Biography

Biography

Legislation My Legislation Committees Bill Search

My Legislation

Committees

Bill Search

Newsroom Releases/Editorials In The News Audio/Video Are You Kidding Me? Photos Media Kit

Releases/Editorials

In The News

Audio/Video

Are You Kidding Me?

Photos

Media Kit

Contact Me Certificate Request District Internship Program District Map E-mail the Senator Legislative Proposal My Offices Subscribe to the Mailing List

Certificate Request

District Internship Program

District Map

E-mail the Senator

Legislative Proposal

My Offices

Subscribe to the Mailing List

Dangerous Democrats Support Early Release for Violent Sex Offenders

More News

ICYMI

View All

Breadcrumb

Aug 6
California Republicans’ Growing Impact on Social Media
Jul 16
Leader Jones Stands on Steps of the Capitol Opposing the Anti-Charter School Bill
Jul 16
AB 84 Charter Schools Press Conference
Jul 15
Leader Jones Demands Accountability on Dangerous Sexually Violent Predator Program

Jun 17
2025
$8-a-gallon gas? Senate Minority Leader Brian W. Jones requests audit of gas price hikes
Jun 9
2025
Nixed bill could have prevented LA unrest, California minority leader says
Jun 8
2025
California lawmaker warns Menendez brothers' case is driving return of bill to release thousands of killers
Jun 3
2025
Ramona nonprofit, resident recognized with Senate District 40 awards