AB 1238 Protects Consumer Freedom and Combats Costly and Unworkable Regulations That Would Ban Gas Appliances or Gas Powered Vehicles
Assemblyman Carl DeMaio today unveiled his “California Energy Consumer Freedom Act” (AB 1238) legislation that protects Californians’ freedom of choice when it comes to their choice for how they desire to power appliances in their homes and what kind of cars they want to drive.
While California politicians have imposed a variety of mandates with the ultimate goal of 100% electrification of both utilities and vehicles, many have pointed out the already troubling state of the electrical grid and its inability to handle the immense strain these regulations will bring to that grid.
DeMaio provides the following statement explaining the importance of passing AB 1238:
“California politicians have a reckless fixation on forcing the electrification of every appliance and car in our state – and the result has been a massive spike in costs to consumers, unsustainable burdens on our electric grid, and surprisingly negative impacts on our environment. It is time to tell politicians ‘step away from the stove and get out of my car’ and let consumers decide how they want to power their home appliances and what kinds of cars they want to drive.”
KEY PROVISIONS OF AB 1238:
Prohibits Bans on Gas Appliances:
AB 1238 would prohibit state agencies and local governments from adopting or enforcing a rule, regulation, resolution, or ordinance that directly or indirectly prohibits the use of gas appliances. A recent study by the National Association of Homebuilders put the cost of retrofitting a home for all electric appliances at $30,000 or more.
Prohibits EV Mandates:
AB 1238 would nullify the CA Air Resources Board (CARB) mandate that requires automakers to sell an increase percentage of EV vehicles each year until all cars are EV in 2035.  Automakers are losing money and consumers are facing massive car cost spikes as a result.
Protect the Environment and Ensures Energy Reliability:
AB 1238 guards against the negative environmental impacts of gas appliance and car bans that ban backers have refused to address.  AB 1238 also lays the foundation for keeping California’s energy supply reliable by providing for gas-powered options for appliances and cars.
DeMaio is available by phone or zoom for interviews – or in-person at the State Capitol