In yet another display of the casual arrogance of one-party rule, Senate Democrats today voted down three budget amendments submitted by members of the Senate Republican Caucus on the Senate Floor. The caucus’ requests prioritized funding to provide Californians with greater safety, prosperity and opportunity.

Among the rejected requests was funding for the implementation of Proposition 36 (Drug crime sentencing, treatment), restoring the cuts to middle-class scholarship funding for students at California State University and the University of California , and funding to hire seasonal firefighters as full time employees .

“Californians are so over the soft-on-crime approach of the Governor and Legislature the past decade,” said Senator Tony Strickland ( R-Huntington Beach ). “It’s not working, which is why nearly seventy percent of the voters said to make Prop. 36 happen. Yet the governor and Democrat leadership are still stubbornly refusing to fund the measure. That donkey branding is really on point.”

Click here to view Senator Strickland’s floor speech and here for the vote tally.

“The governor’s cuts to scholarship funding for middle-income students at CSUs and UCs are just one more nail in the coffin for middle-class families in California,” said Senator Marie Alvarado-Gil ( R-Jackson ). “Yes, the state’s budget is tight, but there are places to cut back that wouldn’t jeopardize the future of vast numbers of our youth.”

Click here to view Senator Alvarado-Gil’s floor speech and here for the vote tally.

“Wildfires are no longer confined to a single season in California,” said Senator Kelly Seyarto ( R-Murrieta ). “Investing in a year-round firefighting workforce should be a top priority. This amendment was an opportunity for the Legislature to get ahead of future emergencies and ensure trained personnel are available for both prevention and response efforts. If we’re serious about protecting Californians and their communities, the state’s budget must reflect that urgency.”

Click here to view Seyarto’s floor speech and here for the vote tally.

Last month, the chair of the Senate Budget Committee invited all senators to submit letters addressing their statewide budget priorities, which the Senate Republican Caucus did . Senate Republican members also followed up on their requests during the floor session today, but were repeatedly voted down.

Capitol:

District Office:

301 Main Street, Suite 212 Huntington Beach, CA 92648 (714) 374-4000

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

<d

Home

About Tony Biography Committees

Biography

Committees

Newsroom Releases / Opinions Newsletters Audio / Video Photos

Releases / Opinions

Newsletters

Audio / Video

Photos

Contact Me District Map My Offices Scheduling Requests

District Map

My Offices

Scheduling Requests

Democrats reject Prop. 36, year-round firefighters, middle-class scholarship funding in Senate Floor vote

Breadcrumb