Democrats claim to respect our right to privacy, but with his bill to mandate “electronic purchase receipts,” the Assemblymember from San Francisco is trying to force every Californian to give up yet another very large chunk of our digital privacy.

Assembly Bill 161 was introduced at a press conference with a truly disrespectful visual of a staff person wearing a lengthy “receipt” draped around his neck that flowed down to and across the floor. This bill would mandate that all businesses – retail and service – provide electronic receipts for purchases by Jan. 1, 2022, unless the purchaser specifies they want a paper receipt.

To get an electronic receipt, the consumer would have to provide their email address. I don’t know about you, but I do not want to provide my email address – and, ultimately, access to my personal information – to every retailer I purchase a product, meal or service from.

In our increasingly challenging Internet world, we’ve only recently begun to learn how Facebook, Google, Apple and others have invaded and monetized our personal data.  Worse, we’ve also learned how often that data is breached and stolen, even from “Big Tech” companies with all their supposedly impermeable security measures.

So now we’re supposed to willingly give up our data again, this time to all stores whether or not they can afford even a minimum of the security measures Big Tech claims?

Thanks, but no thanks.

Further, what about the people who don’t have and can’t afford online access? In the first-of-its-kind look at internet connectivity, data released by the Census Bureau recently exposes that there is a significant digital divide in low-income neighborhoods.

According to an op-ed written by a California State University, Sacramento professor in 2017, 43 percent of rural residents in California do not have reliable high-speed internet access while the same goes for 16 percent of the overall state population.

If the author just drives up the highway from his well-connected San Francisco, I’m sure he will find many “digital deserts” in the rural and lower-income parts of Northern California.

What are these people supposed to do for proof of purchase if electronic receipts are mandatory? Given the high-cost of living in California, if you have to choose between keeping the heat on, putting food on the table, buying gas for the car so they can get to work, or having Internet service and getting a computer printer, guess which need goes unmet?

Privacy, security, affordability – these are just a few of the topline reasons why mandating electronic receipts is a bad idea.

I welcome your thoughts on this or any other state issues. Contact me at senator.jones@sen.ca.gov .

This op-ed was originally published in the East County Californian on Apr. 29, 2019: https://eccalifornian.com/ mandating-electronic-purchase- receipts-ignores-privacy-and- digital-deserts/

Capitol Office

1021 O Street, Room 7640 Sacramento, CA 95814 Phone: (916) 651-4040 Fax: (916) 651-4940

Scripps Ranch Office

10650 Treena Street #110 San Diego, CA 92131 Phone: (858) 547-3818

Escondido Office

720 N. Broadway, Suite 110 Escondido, CA 92025 Phone: (760) 796-4655

facebook Facebook

twitter Twitter

instagram Instagram

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

Home

About Brian Biography

Biography

Legislation My Legislation Committees Bill Search

My Legislation

Committees

Bill Search

Newsroom Releases/Editorials In The News Audio/Video Are You Kidding Me? Photos Media Kit

Releases/Editorials

In The News

Audio/Video

Are You Kidding Me?

Photos

Media Kit

Contact Me Certificate Request District Internship Program District Map E-mail the Senator Legislative Proposal My Offices Subscribe to the Mailing List

Certificate Request

District Internship Program

District Map

E-mail the Senator

Legislative Proposal

My Offices

Subscribe to the Mailing List

East County Californian: Mandating electronic purchase receipts ignores privacy and digital deserts

More News

ICYMI

View All

Breadcrumb

Aug 6
California Republicans’ Growing Impact on Social Media
Jul 16
Leader Jones Stands on Steps of the Capitol Opposing the Anti-Charter School Bill
Jul 16
AB 84 Charter Schools Press Conference
Jul 15
Leader Jones Demands Accountability on Dangerous Sexually Violent Predator Program

Jun 17
2025
$8-a-gallon gas? Senate Minority Leader Brian W. Jones requests audit of gas price hikes
Jun 9
2025
Nixed bill could have prevented LA unrest, California minority leader says
Jun 8
2025
California lawmaker warns Menendez brothers' case is driving return of bill to release thousands of killers
Jun 3
2025
Ramona nonprofit, resident recognized with Senate District 40 awards