Yesterday, the California State Senate voted to approve Assembly Bill 1054 – Governor Newsom’s Wildfire Fund legislation. Some have called it Governor Newsom’s first real test of legislative leadership. The measure actually is a feeble attempt to thread the needle between Wall Street, the investor-owned utility companies, ratepayers, trial lawyers, and victims of recent devastating wildfires that jeopardize the solvency of the state’s IOUs. Senator Brian Jones (R-Santee) released the following statement regarding the passage of AB 1054:

“As is often the case when multiple interests face legislation coming their way, one is isolated and their interests are gored. Sadly, with AB 1054, the ones getting gored are ratepayers.

“In the Los Angeles Times article that was published after the bill passed the Senate, Taryn Luna wrote, “There’s been no shortage of criticism for Gov. Gavin Newsom’s plan to help California’s largest utilities stave off bankruptcy from costs associated with wildfires: No focus on prevention efforts. More difficulty proving utility negligence. Too much of the financial burden falling on millions of utility customers.” I couldn’t agree more.

“In one of its worst provisions, a fee that we have all been paying for 20 years as a result of the last time the Governor and Legislature tried to “deregulate” electrical rates back in the late 1990s and is set to expire, will simply be “extended” for another 15 years with the intent of collecting $10.5 billion for the Wildfire Fund. No one even mentioned that we were breaking our word about a temporary fee. Only in the Capitol can legislators, with a straight face, argue that an extension of a fee on utility ratepayers, is not a fee increase that falls on utility ratepayers. Since ratepayers are used to paying it, it’s not an increase when extended…or so the logic goes. And in a nod to the rich and coastal, if you have solar on your home or are cooled by the ocean breeze, the fee will barely touch you. Only ordinary inland working class ratepayers will shoulder this one.

“As to those provisions the Governor and Legislators tout as getting tough on utilities, their executives, and Wall Street types, there are loopholes large enough for their army of lawyers to drive through. Those provisions that require the utilities to harden their assets to prevent ignition of wildfires will hopefully help, but there is nothing in the bill about clearing the mass of fuel that has accumulated in rural areas because of enviro-resistance to that removal.

“As to process, AB 1054 has been a ghost. It only surfaced for the public over this past holiday weekend and is being fast-tracked as to avoid any real public notice and any real review. Yesterday, it passed both the policy and fiscal committees and off the Senate Floor in a matter of hours. A process that properly should take weeks or months. The Legislature should take the summer recess month to hold hearings away from the Capitol bubble in places like San Diego, the Inland Empire, LA, the Central Coast, the Central Valley, in Sonoma-Napa, up in Redding and up in Chico instead of the rushed, quick show hearings we witnessed yesterday.

“My job in Sacramento is to protect taxpayers and in this case ratepayers from an ever-increasing government appetite that wants to consume all the fruits of our individual labor. Once Sacramento is done, our families’ budgets will be left with nothing for ourselves. I voted against AB 1054 because it has no real compassion for victims and is mostly smoke and mirrors about managing the forests to reduce future fires. After all the new government agencies created do their thing, the costs will all fall on ordinary, hardworking Californians who can least afford it.”

Capitol Office

1021 O Street, Room 7640 Sacramento, CA 95814 Phone: (916) 651-4040 Fax: (916) 651-4940

Scripps Ranch Office

10650 Treena Street #110 San Diego, CA 92131 Phone: (858) 547-3818

Escondido Office

720 N. Broadway, Suite 110 Escondido, CA 92025 Phone: (760) 796-4655

facebook Facebook

twitter Twitter

instagram Instagram

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

Home

About Brian Biography

Biography

Legislation My Legislation Committees Bill Search

My Legislation

Committees

Bill Search

Newsroom Releases/Editorials In The News Audio/Video Are You Kidding Me? Photos Media Kit

Releases/Editorials

In The News

Audio/Video

Are You Kidding Me?

Photos

Media Kit

Contact Me Certificate Request District Internship Program District Map E-mail the Senator Legislative Proposal My Offices Subscribe to the Mailing List

Certificate Request

District Internship Program

District Map

E-mail the Senator

Legislative Proposal

My Offices

Subscribe to the Mailing List

The Electricity Bailout Bill Sails through the Legislature Despite Its Numerous Flaws

More News

ICYMI

View All

Breadcrumb

Aug 6
California Republicans’ Growing Impact on Social Media
Jul 16
Leader Jones Stands on Steps of the Capitol Opposing the Anti-Charter School Bill
Jul 16
AB 84 Charter Schools Press Conference
Jul 15
Leader Jones Demands Accountability on Dangerous Sexually Violent Predator Program

Jun 17
2025
$8-a-gallon gas? Senate Minority Leader Brian W. Jones requests audit of gas price hikes
Jun 9
2025
Nixed bill could have prevented LA unrest, California minority leader says
Jun 8
2025
California lawmaker warns Menendez brothers' case is driving return of bill to release thousands of killers
Jun 3
2025
Ramona nonprofit, resident recognized with Senate District 40 awards