Senator Shannon Grove (R-Bakersfield ) announced that her bill to assist disabled veterans by expanding California’s Disabled Property Exemption program passed the Senate Military and Veterans Affairs Committee today. SB 658 will authorize county assessors to make available the state’s property tax exemption proportional to the disability rating percentage issued by the department responsible for their discharge from service.

Current law allows disabled veterans to request a reduction on their home’s assessed value.  However, many veterans are unaware that unless they are 100% disabled, totally blind or have lost one or more limbs, they would not qualify. This means many veterans are turned away.

“As it stands today, even if a veteran were to have a 90% disability rating, they would be ineligible for a property tax exemption,” said Senator Grove. “Many veterans who are severely disabled as a result of their service to the United States are turned away when seeking this exemption. We can do better for those who have sacrificed for our state and nation.”

San Bernardino County Assessor-Recorder Bob Dutton has joined Senator Grove in sponsoring SB 658 and has first-hand experience in assisting veterans with these issues.

“Unfortunately, many of our brave service members come back home with disabilities that will impact them and their families for the rest of their lives. SB 658 expands much needed property tax relief to thousands of California’s disabled veterans,” said Assessor-Recorder Bob Dutton. “Thank you Senator Grove for your steadfast leadership in helping California’s veterans receive the benefits they deserve.”

In 2018, the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs estimated that in California, there were more than ten thousand homeless veterans, which was five times more than the next highest state.

“SB 658 could be that one saving grace for a veteran, helping them to keep their home and get them through their hardship until they can get back on their feet,” said Senator Grove.  “I am grateful for Bob Dutton’s leadership and support on this bill, as well as his continued service to veterans and their families.”

SB 658 passed with a bipartisan vote of 5 to 0. The measure will next be heard by the Senate Committee on Appropriations.

Capitol Office

1021 O Street, Room 7150 Sacramento, CA 95814 Phone: (916) 651-4012 Fax: (916) 651-4916

Bakersfield Office

5701 Truxtun Ave., Suite 150 Bakersfield, CA 93309 Phone: (661) 323-0443 Fax: (661) 323-0446

Fresno Office

567 W. Shaw Ave., Suite A-3 Fresno, CA 93704 Phone:  559-243-8580

facebook Facebook

twitter Twitter

instagram Instagram

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

Home

About Shannon Biography Committees 12th Senate District Map

Biography

Committees

12th Senate District Map

Legislation My Legislation Bill Search Submit a Legislative Proposal

My Legislation

Bill Search

Submit a Legislative Proposal

Newsroom Releases / Editorials Photos

Releases / Editorials

Photos

Resources California Senate Fellows Program Coronavirus Information Education Register to Vote Unclaimed Property Veteran Resources

California Senate Fellows Program

Coronavirus Information

Education

Register to Vote

Unclaimed Property

Veteran Resources

Contact me My Offices E-mail the Senator Subscribe

My Offices

E-mail the Senator

Subscribe

Expansion of Disabled Veterans Property Tax Exemption Approved by Senate Military and Veterans Affairs Committee

More News

View All

Breadcrumb

Aug 29
Senator Shannon Grove Celebrates Advancement of Key Bills for Special Education and Rural Healthcare, Expresses Disappointment Over Scrapping of Leno’s Law
Aug 27
VIDEO: Celebrity advocate Paris Hilton calls for passage of child protection measure ahead of key vote
Aug 25
Senator Shannon Grove and Assemblyman David Tangipa  Honor Retired NFL Quarterback, Derek Carr
Aug 21
Senator Shannon Grove opposes Democrats' attempt to override the will of California voters