Law Requires Coastal Erosion Panels to Provide Scientific Analysis on Projects before State Agency

SACRAMENTO – Assemblywoman Laurie Davies today announced her bill, AB 1881, was recently signed into law. The measure ensures that decisions made by the Coastal Commission include input by experts in the scientific or environmental issue that is under review. “In District 74, coastal erosion has posed a significant threat to our communities, infrastructure, and natural habitats,” stated Davies. “By working to address this key issue, we can protect our district’s economic vitality, environmental health, property values, and the quality of life for our community.”

The Coastal Commission plans for and regulates the use of land and water on California’s coast. The coastal zone is a distinct and valuable natural resource of vital and enduring interest to all residents. The Commission’s concern is the protection of the state’s natural and scenic coastal resources when it reviews proposed changes and developments. The new law incorporates specialized expertise that allows for a more scientific and practical approach to the Commission’s decision-making process.

“Our deteriorating shoreline is an issue that plagues California’s beautiful beaches and natural resources,” stated Assemblywoman Davies. “Coastal development faces future eroding bluffs and significant challenges. AB 1881 is a simple measure to ensure that the California Coastal Commission includes someone with a background in coastal erosion mitigation efforts when it reviews projects.” Specialized expertise in these areas ensures that projects under review receive scientific analysis rather than simply a shared view. The new law will help those plan for development in coastal zones, ensuring the protection of coastlines and the interests of property owners for future generations.

The Coastal Commission is an independent, quasi-judicial state agency, and its mission statement states that it “is committed to protecting and enhancing California’s coast and ocean for present and future generations.” The commission does so “through careful planning and regulation of environmentally sustainable development, rigorous use of science, strong public participation, education, public’s right to coastal access and effective intergovernmental coordination.”

###

July 30, 2024

Press Release

August 20, 2025

May 27, 2025

May 9, 2025

Related Posts