Nominees in the 74th Assembly District

Oceanside, CA – On Friday March 21 st , Assemblywoman Laurie Davies honored 22 San Diego County women who were nominated for the 2025 Woman of the Year program at a reception in Oceanside. The event recognized the valuable contributions of women from California’s 74th Assembly District, celebrating their dedication and impact within their communities.

Assemblywoman Davies stated, “To all the women who were nominated, I want to extend my deepest gratitude. Your work and contributions do not go unnoticed. The passion with which you serve our communities ignites hope and drives progress, making our world a better place, day by day. May today be a reflection of the appreciation and admiration that your communities hold for you.”

Below is a list of the nominees who were recognized:

Martha Alvarado, Vista – Educator, Marine Corps veteran, and community leader. She has served as a School Board Trustee and President, actively advocating for education and mental health initiatives for families and adolescents.

Bess Bronson, Oceanside –Community leader and advocate, serving as President of the Oceanside Pacific Kiwanis and Scholarship Chair for the North County African American Women’s Association (NCAAWA).

Peggy Brown, Fallbrook –Community volunteer involved with the Fallbrook Chamber of Commerce, Historical Society, Music Society, and Car Club, as well as the Fallbrook Revitalization Committee.

Lisa De Jesus, Vista – Business owner of ADU Gurus and former Vista Planning Commissioner, dedicated to increasing housing access and community development.

Eleanor Evans, Oceanside – Trustee for the Oceanside Unified School District, advocating for education, affordable housing, and economic development.

Samantha Gambles-Farr, Oceanside – Trauma Nurse Practitioner at UC San Diego Health and healthcare advocate involved in the NAACP and Black Nurses Association.

Leslee Gaul, Oceanside – CEO of Visit Oceanside, leading sustainability efforts in tourism, including the Kind Traveler program and Oceanside Coastal Dunes Restoration Project.

Rev. Maxine Hall, Oceanside – Retired Director of the Food Distribution Center at Pilgrim UCC, dedicated to fighting food insecurity.

Renee Huggins, Vista – Founder of Achievement in Motion, a nonprofit offering tutoring, mentoring, and financial literacy programs for K-12 students.

Jessica Kidd, Vista – Leader at Solutions for Change, focused on fundraising and community outreach for homeless services .

Angie Leonard, Oceanside – CFO and former Interim CEO of Mainstreet Oceanside, ensuring the success of local events like the Sunset Market and Independence Parade.

Jaclyn Marquez, Oceanside – Executive Director of UEI College, committed to student success and educational leadership.

Regina Myrick, Oceanside – Advocate for domestic violence survivors through United Women Empowerment Against Gun & Domestic Violence.

Katie Ohlin, Vista – Science and Environmental Science teacher leading sustainability initiatives and environmental education programs at Calavera Hills Middle School.

Beatriz Palmer, Oceanside – Board President of Operation HOPE Vista and active leader in multiple community organizations supporting underserved populations.

Robyn Palmer Carlson, Oceanside – Community leader involved in business networking groups and a dedicated advocate for women entrepreneurs.

Jennifer Pankey, Vista – Vice President of Programs at Solutions for Change, developing successful sober living and homelessness recovery programs.

Renee Richardson, Oceanside – Longtime Oceanside Rotary Club member and community service leader, recognized for her decades of contributions.

Carly Starr, Oceanside – Award-winning filmmaker and Executive Director of KOCT Television, fostering the local arts and media landscape.

Chelsea Stone, Oceanside – Founder of Dedicated Healthcare, expanding healthcare access and autism awareness in underserved communities.

Emily Wichmann, Oceanside – Six-time elected Oceanside Unified School District Board Trustee, advocating for students, parents, and community resources.

Karen Williams-Graham, Oceanside – Founder of the Rory Graham Foundation, a leader in education advocacy and youth mentorship program.

The Woman of the Year event was founded in 1987 by Assemblywoman Bev Hansen (R) and Assemblywoman Sally Tanner (D), who noticed that the California Legislature had no events planned for the month of March, Women’s History Month.  In celebration of the contributions to society made by remarkable women throughout California, Hansen and Tanner arranged to invite one woman from each Senate and Assembly district to be honored for their accomplishments. This yearly event, sponsored and organized by the Women’s Caucus, is greatly anticipated by all Legislators today.

The celebration was held Friday afternoon at Pannikin Coffee in Oceanside. The Woman of the Year event is sponsored by the California Women’s Caucus and is not held at taxpayer expense.

### Assemblywoman Laurie Davies represents the 74th Assembly District, which includes the communities of southern Orange County, including Dana Point, Laguna Niguel, San Clemente, and San Juan Capistrano plus the communities of northern San Diego County, including Camp Pendleton, Fallbrook, Oceanside and Vista.

March 28, 2025

In the News , Press Release

August 28, 2025

August 20, 2025

July 3, 2025

Related Posts