Published in the Fresno Bee on July 30, 2019. Link to article here: https://www.fresnobee.com/ opinion/op-ed/ article233296752.html

SACRAMENTO – Agriculture is more than an industry in California; it is a way of life. Farmers face uncertainty in many stages of production. Mother Nature controls the difference between success or devastation during harvest season. Rain and snowpack levels govern the amount of water allocated to farms. Rapid advancements in biotechnology and precision agriculture change the tools available to farmers.

Agriculture is the foundation of the Golden State. California’s rich land and diverse climates make us the top producer of agricultural goods in the nation. Farming is more than a job; it supports our economies, infrastructure and communities.

California continues to set the pace for producing and exporting goods. According to the California Department of Agriculture , our state is the nation’s supplier of 99 percent or more of foods such as almonds, artichokes, figs, garlic, kiwi, olives, pistachios, raisins, table grapes and walnuts.

California’s two largest trading partners are Mexico and Canada. Our state exported more than $30.7 billion in products to our southern neighbor and $17.7 billion to our northern one. These countries combined make up more than 28% of California’s total exports.

Farmers face uncertain times regularly, so providing stability wherever possible is critical. For years the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) has done just that, provided a blanket of security over agricultural trade. The agreement, signed in 1994, reduced restrictions and eliminated trade barriers, opening the borders to free trade between the U.S., Mexico and Canada.

As our economy and world has developed and grown, our trade needs have as well. President Trump has fulfilled his promise to address these changes with the United States, Mexico and Canada Agreement (USMCA).

The USMCA modernizes trade with Mexico and Canada. It creates a level playing field for American workers, benefits agriculture, supports a 21st century intellectual property protection, modernizes digital trade provisions, and helps protect small and medium-sized businesses.

The USMCA will benefit our farmers, ranchers and agribusinesses by modernizing and strengthening food and agriculture trade in North America. It will create and improve opportunities to export dairy, poultry and eggs from the United States, will maintain zero tariffs on agriculture products, and will implement provisions to allow agriculture products to be traded more fairly.

Free-flowing commerce is critical to our state’s agriculture industry, which is why I am working on a Senate Resolution to urge Congress to support the USMCA.

We must urge Congress to pass the USMCA, because it will modernize trade with our neighboring countries, bring security to our farmers, and maintain the greatest agriculture industry in the nation.

Capitol Office

1021 O Street, Room 7150 Sacramento, CA 95814 Phone: (916) 651-4012 Fax: (916) 651-4916

Bakersfield Office

5701 Truxtun Ave., Suite 150 Bakersfield, CA 93309 Phone: (661) 323-0443 Fax: (661) 323-0446

Fresno Office

567 W. Shaw Ave., Suite A-3 Fresno, CA 93704 Phone:  559-243-8580

facebook Facebook

twitter Twitter

instagram Instagram

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

Home

About Shannon Biography Committees 12th Senate District Map

Biography

Committees

12th Senate District Map

Legislation My Legislation Bill Search Submit a Legislative Proposal

My Legislation

Bill Search

Submit a Legislative Proposal

Newsroom Releases / Editorials Photos

Releases / Editorials

Photos

Resources California Senate Fellows Program Coronavirus Information Education Register to Vote Unclaimed Property Veteran Resources

California Senate Fellows Program

Coronavirus Information

Education

Register to Vote

Unclaimed Property

Veteran Resources

Contact me My Offices E-mail the Senator Subscribe

My Offices

E-mail the Senator

Subscribe

The Fresno Bee: Congress should back Trump trade deal with Mexico, Canada to help California farmers

More News

View All

Breadcrumb

Aug 29
Senator Shannon Grove Celebrates Advancement of Key Bills for Special Education and Rural Healthcare, Expresses Disappointment Over Scrapping of Leno’s Law
Aug 27
VIDEO: Celebrity advocate Paris Hilton calls for passage of child protection measure ahead of key vote
Aug 25
Senator Shannon Grove and Assemblyman David Tangipa  Honor Retired NFL Quarterback, Derek Carr
Aug 21
Senator Shannon Grove opposes Democrats' attempt to override the will of California voters