Legislation, Budget Request Made to Protect Crucial Flood Control System
BUTTE COUNTY – Today, Assemblyman
James Gallagher
(R-East Nicolaus) and Senator
Megan Dahle
(R-Bieber) announced legislative action to address public safety in the Five-Mile Basin, a crucial flood control system in the City of Chico and Butte County. The basin has been significantly compromised by erosion following the 2024 Park Fire, with recent storms bringing water levels dangerously close to overtopping the vulnerable flood control system.
In a letter to the Chair of the Assembly Budget Committee,
Gallagher and Dahle requested $7 million to fund emergency maintenance on the system.
“Far too often, we see government delays and bureaucratic red tape get in the way of preventing disaster. We cannot let that happen here,”
said
Gallagher
“It’s going to be a heck of a lot cheaper to fix this mess now than it will be if the system fails. I am dedicated to working with all levels of government to find a speedy resolution.”
Constructed in the 1960’s by the US Army Corps of Engineers, the Five-Mile Basin diverts flood water into Big Chico Creek, Lindo Channel and Sycamore Creek. Removal of debris and vegetation clogging the waterways was essentially halted in the early 2000’s when state and federal regulators raised concerns that maintenance efforts were disrupting aquatic habitat.
Although sediment accumulation has been a concern for many years, increased erosion and debris flows caused by the Park Fire have significantly increased flood risk.  The fire burned 429,603 acres in Butte and Tehama Counties, impacting 75% of Chico’s watershed.
A
recent study
estimated that 67,000 cubic yards of debris – the equivalent of more than 6,000 dump trucks – is clogging the waterway.
We all want clean air, clean water and thriving ecosystems. But there has got to be a balance and some common sense
,” said
Dahle
. “
California must invest in this project and cut the red tape. Plain and simple
In addition to their funding request,
Gallagher
and
Dahle
have introduced legislation, Assembly Bill 1000, to exempt the Five-Mile Basin cleanup project from burdensome environmental laws that are likely to delay critical flood risk reduction work. A
recent report from the Assembly Select Committee on Permitting Reform
noted that the law responsible for delaying these vital infrastructure projects, the California Environmental Quality Act, “has proven highly susceptible to being leveraged to prevent development of projects for non-environmental reasons.” The report went on to argue “permitting reform is necessary for the state to achieve its climate resiliency objectives with relation to water storage, conveyance, and flood control.”
Chico Mayor
Kasey Reynolds
expressed the need for urgency,
“Removing fire debris from Five-Mile Basin will take more resources than the City of Chico has available, leaving us one bad storm away from disaster. We must protect our community and residents by restoring the channel to its full capacity.”
Chair of the Butte County Board of Supervisors,
Tod Kimmelshue
, added,
“Butte County has been devastated by several megafires in the past few years which have severely impacted our watersheds and flood control systems. Massive amounts of mud, silt and debris from the Park Fire have pushed the system close to its breaking point. Now is the time to act to prevent a disaster.”
###
Assembly Republican Leader James Gallagher represents California’s 3rd Assembly District, which includes Butte, Glenn, Sutter, Tehama, Yuba, and parts of Placer County.
Senator Megan Dahle represents California’s 1st Senate District, which includes Butte, Colusa, Glenn, Lassen, Modoc, Nevada, Plumas, Shasta, Sierra, Siskiyou, Sutter, Tehama, Yuba, and parts of Placer County.