Legislation passes through critical policy committees
SACRAMENTO – Four bills authored by Assemblyman
James Gallagher
(R-East Nicolaus) advanced through the legislative process this week at the State Capitol. Each measure authored by Gallagher is targeted at solving problems and supporting communities in the 3rd Assembly District.
“As the North State’s representative in the State Assembly, I’m constantly looking for opportunities to solve problems and make California government work for us. It’s a true honor to shepherd through these important measures that were brought to my attention by local community members,”
said
Gallagher
“As the legislative process continues to move forward, I will relentlessly advocate for the families, employers and veterans that make our portion of the state so special.”
The following legislation advanced unanimously through their respective policy committee this week:
Assembly Bill 1343
– Caltrans is selling property it originally purchased in the 90’s with the intent of building a third bridge across the Feather River. AB 1343 allows Yuba-Sutter local governments to keep the property sale revenues for a future third bridge project.
Assembly Bill 975
– Hundreds of rural bridges and culverts in Sutter County have been damaged or destroyed by recent storms and natural disasters. AB 975 will help speed up the repair timeline by exempting some of the burdensome regulatory barriers.
Assembly Bill 1196
– Outdated state regulations on certain cardiovascular surgeries place significant financial strain on some rural hospitals. AB 1196 requires the state to update its regulations to reflect advancements in technology and medicine.
Assembly Concurrent Resolution 16
– Will designate the Feather River Bridge on State Highway Route 20 in the Cities of Marysville and Yuba City as the ‘POW/MIA Bridge,’ to honor the sacrifice of veterans who have been taken as prisoners of war or have gone missing in action.
###
Assembly Republican Leader James Gallagher represents California’s 3rd Assembly District, which includes Butte, Glenn, Sutter, Tehama, Yuba, and parts of Placer County.