SACRAMENTO –
Assemblyman James Gallagher
(R-Yuba City) today announced the passage of several critical bills he authored during the 2024 legislative session, which now await the Governor’s signature. These bills address key issues such as educational equity, patient rights, economic opportunity, and energy reliability.
AB 1938
ensures that children who are deaf, hard of hearing, or deaf-blind receive the educational opportunities they deserve. The bill requires schools to consider the unique communication needs of these students, such as American Sign Language or visual supplements in spoken language settings, when implementing inclusion initiatives. “
This bill addresses the social isolation experienced by many deaf and hard-of-hearing students in traditional schools
,” said
Gallagher
. “
Every child deserves access to an education that meets their individual needs
AB 2549
, Dianne’s Law, builds on lessons learned from the COVID-19 pandemic by safeguarding visitation rights for immediate family members in health care facilities. “
Far too many families were kept apart during their loved ones’ final moments
,” said
Gallagher
. “
This bill guarantees that patients receive the dignity, care, and support they deserve, especially during end-of-life situations.
” The bill requires hospitals and care facilities to accommodate visitors to the greatest extent possible and guarantees in-person visits during end-of-life situations.
AB 2069
allows bars and restaurants with “on-sale” alcohol licenses to sell domestically produced soju and shochu, correcting an imbalance in California’s alcohol regulations. Currently, these licenses permit the sale of imported soju and shochu, but not locally produced versions without a more expensive general license. This puts California distilleries at a disadvantage. By aligning with federal definitions, AB 2069 supports local producers, promotes economic fairness, and removes unnecessary barriers to market access.
AB 2750
ensures that biomass facilities in air districts that voluntarily use a more restrictive federal EPA tier remain eligible for BioRAM power purchase agreements, safeguarding their continued viability. The legislation is vital to maintaining California’s biomass energy production, which plays a critical role in forest waste management and reducing wildfire risk. Additionally, biomass facilities provide a stable source of electricity that is available 24/7, unlike wind and solar. “
California needs more biomass plants to take in flammable fuel from our forests and turn it into clean, reliable electricity
,” said
Gallagher
. “
AB 2750 will ensure our existing biomass plants can continue operating so this important wildfire prevention work and clean power generation can continue.
In addition to these legislative victories, Gallagher spearheaded two significant resolutions:
ACR 121
designates portions of State Highway Routes 20 and 99 in Yuba City for inclusion in the National Purple Heart Trail, honoring veterans wounded or lost in combat.
ACR 149
commemorates the 100th anniversary of U.S.-Ireland diplomatic relations and designates March 2024 as Irish American Heritage Month, celebrating the profound contributions of Irish Americans to California and the nation.
For more information on Assemblyman Gallagher, and to track legislation visit
www.assembly.ca.gov/Gallagher
###