On behalf of the state’s taxpayers who received the Middle-Class Tax Refund, Republican lawmakers of California urge the President to exempt these payments from federal income tax. These payments may be taxable by the Internal Revenue Service. Below is a copy of their letter:

February 8, 2023 The Honorable Joseph Biden President of the United States The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W. Washington, DC 20500

Dear President Biden:

Nearly 18 million Californians have received the Middle Class Tax Refund from the State of California. To their surprise, they are learning these payments may be taxable by the Internal Revenue Service.

As their elected representatives, we request that your Administration exempt these payments from federal income tax.

California officials have stated that these payments are not subject to state income tax, but they “may be considered federal income.” This has caused confusion and angst among residents.

Promised as a payment to help combat soaring inflation, these limited refunds were touted as financial relief to residents — similar to the federal stimulus checks issued during the pandemic. Like the federal stimulus dollars, the refund was issued from taxes paid by Californians. Therefore, California’s Middle Class Tax Refund must be given the same federal tax exemption.

Middle class Californians should not be taxed twice on their own refunds. With tax season officially open, we ask that you act swiftly to ease Californians’ anxiety and to ensure proper compliance. Sincerely,

Vince Fong Assemblymember, 32nd District

Phillip Chen Assemblymember, 59th District

James Gallagher Assemblymember, 3rd District

Brian Jones Senator, 40th District

Megan Dahle Assemblymember, 1st District

Joe Patterson Assemblymember, 5th District

Josh Hoover Assemblymember, 7th District

Jim Patterson Assemblymember, 8th District

Heath Flora Assemblymember, 9th District

Juan Alanis Assemblymember, 22nd District

Devon Mathis Assemblymember, 33rd District

Tom Lackey Assemblymember, 34th District

Greg Wallis Assemblymember, 47th District

Bill Essayli Assemblymember, 63rd District

Tri Ta Assemblymember, 70th District

Kate Sanchez Assemblymember, 71st District

Diane Dixon Assemblymember, 72nd District

Laurie Davies Assemblymember, 74th District

Marie Waldron Assemblymember, 75th District

Brian Dahle Senator, 1st District

Roger Niello Senator, 6th District

Shannon Grove Senator, 12th District

Scott Wilk Senator, 21st District

Rosilicie Ochoa Bogh Senator, 23rd District

Kelly Seyarto Senator, 32nd District

Janet Nguyen Senator, 36th District

# # #

Contact Nghia.Nguyen@asm.ca.gov 916-813-8367

Assemblyman Vince Fong represents the 32 nd Assembly District, which encompasses Kern and Tulare Counties.