California drivers are paying over $2 more than those in other states

Californians are paying as much as $7.39 for a gallon of gas with a statewide average of $5.89, while the national average is $3.83. This skyrocketing price cuts into families’ already strained finances. Republican lawmakers call upon the Governor to convene a special session of the Legislature to temporarily suspend the state’s gas tax. Below and attached is a copy of their letter:

September 28, 2023 The Honorable Gavin Newsom Governor 1021 O Street Sacramento CA, 95814 Dear Governor Newsom,

Gas prices are once again soaring, and Californians are paying $2 more per gallon than the rest of the country. Drivers are spending more than $100 each month just on gas. This elevated energy cost cuts into family’s already strained budgets.

We ask you to call a special session of the Legislature to temporarily suspend the state’s gas tax. Californians are paying $0.58 per gallon to the state. Immediate relief is needed.

California is an energy island with isolated resources which makes our state reliant on foreign imports if more domestic production is not allowed.

In December 2022, you convened a special session of the Legislature and unveiled a proposed penalty on oil production. With prices again near record highs, Californians are rightfully upset as current policies are not working.

As you are aware, there was a temporary suspension of the diesel sales tax in a previous budget. Energy experts have noted the lack of production permits and an isolated energy market that places more cost burdens on hard-working Californians.

Hence, we call upon you to convene a special session of the Legislature to temporarily suspend the gas tax. By suspending the gas tax, everyday Californians can better afford to commute to work and drive their children to school and work. Sincerely,

Vince Fong Assemblymember, 32nd District

James Gallagher Assemblymember, 3rd District

Megan Dahle Assemblymember, 1st District

Joe Patterson Assemblymember, 5th District

Josh Hoover Assemblymember, 7th District

Jim Patterson Assemblymember, 8th District

Heath Flora Assemblymember, 9th District

Juan Alanis Assemblymember, 22nd District

Devon Mathis Assemblymember, 33rd District

Tom Lackey Assemblymember, 34th District

Greg Wallis Assemblymember, 47th District

Phillip Chen Assemblymember, 59th District

Bill Essayli Assemblymember, 63rd District

Tri Ta Assemblymember, 70th District

Kate Sanchez Assemblymember, 71st District

Diane Dixon Assemblymember, 72nd District

Laurie Davies Assemblymember, 74th District

Marie Waldron Assemblymember, 75th District

Brian Dahle Senator, 1st District

Roger Niello Senator, 6th District

Shannon Grove Senator, 12th District

Scott Wilk Senator, 21st District

Rosilicie Ochoa Bogh Senator, 23rd District

Kelly Seyarto Senator, 32nd District

Janet Nguyen Senator, 36th District

Brian Jones Senator, 40th District

# # #

CONTACT Nghia.Nguyen@asm.ca.gov 916.813.8367

Assemblyman Vince Fong represents the 32 nd Assembly District, which encompasses Kern and Tulare Counties.