SACRAMENTO - Today, Governor Gavin Newsom issued Executive Order N-82-20, an overly broad order with the practical effect of increasing the cost of land and disrupting the state’s housing goals. In addition, the order is so vague that it is impossible to say what ramifications the order will have on agriculture. Among other things, this order gives state bureaucrats the authority to enact sweeping changes that will undoubtedly interfere with working lands used for farming and grazing. There is nothing to suggest the order wouldn’t lead to a process whereby the state dictates to growers which crops could be grown in order to maximize carbon sequestration.

Senate Republican Leader Shannon Grove ( R-Bakersfield ) released the following statement:

“Without any public input, Governor Newsom once again bypassed the State Legislature and set forth policy that will have potentially catastrophic implications to housing and the state’s ability to supply the world’s food. Farmers are conservationists at the core who care deeply about the land that nourishes crops and provides food for American families. Farmers across the state already practice crop rotation and monitor soil nutrient and pH levels without the government forcing their hand.

“Like the ban on gas-powered vehicles, is attacking food producers really a priority right now? We’re still fighting a pandemic. Businesses are struggling. Children are not yet in school, and millions of workers have been laid off because of the Governor’s COVID-19 lockdown policies. And rather than allow this sweeping proposal to have the public input it deserves, Governor Newsom just rams it through on his own.

“I remember when Democrats were worried about Donald J. Trump being an authoritarian,” said Senate Republican Leader Shannon Grove.

Capitol Office

1021 O Street, Room 7150 Sacramento, CA 95814 Phone: (916) 651-4012 Fax: (916) 651-4916

Bakersfield Office

5701 Truxtun Ave., Suite 150 Bakersfield, CA 93309 Phone: (661) 323-0443 Fax: (661) 323-0446

Fresno Office

567 W. Shaw Ave., Suite A-3 Fresno, CA 93704 Phone:  559-243-8580

facebook Facebook

twitter Twitter

instagram Instagram

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

Home

About Shannon Biography Committees 12th Senate District Map

Biography

Committees

12th Senate District Map

Legislation My Legislation Bill Search Submit a Legislative Proposal

My Legislation

Bill Search

Submit a Legislative Proposal

Newsroom Releases / Editorials Photos

Releases / Editorials

Photos

Resources California Senate Fellows Program Coronavirus Information Education Register to Vote Unclaimed Property Veteran Resources

California Senate Fellows Program

Coronavirus Information

Education

Register to Vote

Unclaimed Property

Veteran Resources

Contact me My Offices E-mail the Senator Subscribe

My Offices

E-mail the Senator

Subscribe

Governor Newsom Empowers State Bureaucrats to Regulate Working Lands Used for Farming and Grazing

More News

View All

Breadcrumb

Aug 29
Senator Shannon Grove Celebrates Advancement of Key Bills for Special Education and Rural Healthcare, Expresses Disappointment Over Scrapping of Leno’s Law
Aug 27
VIDEO: Celebrity advocate Paris Hilton calls for passage of child protection measure ahead of key vote
Aug 25
Senator Shannon Grove and Assemblyman David Tangipa  Honor Retired NFL Quarterback, Derek Carr
Aug 21
Senator Shannon Grove opposes Democrats' attempt to override the will of California voters