SACRAMENTO – Today, Senate Republican Leader Shannon Grove ( R-Bakersfield ) and Senator Mike Morrell ( R-Rancho Cucamonga ) issued statements after delivering a letter to Governor Newsom urging him to allow Houses of Worship to reopen as part of California’s Stage 2. Members of the Senate and Assembly Republican Caucuses signed on to the letter which media can read here .

Stage 2 is part of California’s “Resilience Roadmap Stages” which is set to start on Friday, May 8. Some businesses that are included in the state's early phase of "Stage 2"  include book stores, clothing stores, sporting goods, toy stores, and florists, given they follow additional safety protocols. The governor's initial Roadmap announcement cited schools and childcare facilities with modifications as being included in Stage 2.

Senate Republican Leader Shannon Grove: “The stay-at-home order has been very difficult for individuals dealing with isolation, anxiety, depression, substance abuse, and domestic violence. During this time when people are mourning lost loved ones and struggling in their everyday lives, it is more important than ever that houses of worship be open for millions of Californians to seek hope, encouragement, support, and healing. Houses of worship should be considered a higher priority for the Governor and be included into Stage 2 of our state’s reopening plan.”

Senator Mike Morrell: “Congregations and ministry leaders have adapted to the pandemic in extraordinary ways to care for their members and maintain critical connection when many are feeling more isolated and lonely. However, these acts are not a replacement for gathering together at a house of worship. With the governor’s Stage 3 perhaps months away, California should look to instead partner with churches and others to reopen during Stage 2 with clear guidelines that protect public health while recognizing spiritual needs as essential and assuring the safeguarding of First Amendment rights.”

Capitol Office

1021 O Street, Room 7150 Sacramento, CA 95814 Phone: (916) 651-4012 Fax: (916) 651-4916

Bakersfield Office

5701 Truxtun Ave., Suite 150 Bakersfield, CA 93309 Phone: (661) 323-0443 Fax: (661) 323-0446

Fresno Office

567 W. Shaw Ave., Suite A-3 Fresno, CA 93704 Phone:  559-243-8580

facebook Facebook

twitter Twitter

instagram Instagram

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

Home

About Shannon Biography Committees 12th Senate District Map

Biography

Committees

12th Senate District Map

Legislation My Legislation Bill Search Submit a Legislative Proposal

My Legislation

Bill Search

Submit a Legislative Proposal

Newsroom Releases / Editorials Photos

Releases / Editorials

Photos

Resources California Senate Fellows Program Coronavirus Information Education Register to Vote Unclaimed Property Veteran Resources

California Senate Fellows Program

Coronavirus Information

Education

Register to Vote

Unclaimed Property

Veteran Resources

Contact me My Offices E-mail the Senator Subscribe

My Offices

E-mail the Senator

Subscribe

Governor Must Allow Houses of Worship to Reopen in Stage 2 to Assist Californians

More News

View All

Breadcrumb

Aug 29
Senator Shannon Grove Celebrates Advancement of Key Bills for Special Education and Rural Healthcare, Expresses Disappointment Over Scrapping of Leno’s Law
Aug 27
VIDEO: Celebrity advocate Paris Hilton calls for passage of child protection measure ahead of key vote
Aug 25
Senator Shannon Grove and Assemblyman David Tangipa  Honor Retired NFL Quarterback, Derek Carr
Aug 21
Senator Shannon Grove opposes Democrats' attempt to override the will of California voters