SACRAMENTO – Today, Senator Shannon Grove ( R-Bakersfield ) denounced the Governor’s actions to attack California workers by eliminating gas-powered vehicles by 2035 and committing to work with Legislative Democrats to end fracking.

Senator Grove released the following statement:

“Californians have had enough with these extremist policies that have forced rolling blackouts, shuttered thousands of businesses, fueled catastrophic wildfires, killed the freelance economy, and beyond. Perhaps Governor Newsom should spend less time pursuing headlines and spend more time on real solutions. How about keeping Californians safe from wildfires, having an unemployment department that doesn’t have a 1.6 million claim backlog, or having a reliable energy grid that allows us to turn on the AC in 110-degree weather?

“The fact is that Californians cannot survive without oil and gas or petroleum byproducts. These products are not just the gas in our cars, they are the asphalt on our roads, the plastic holding together electric vehicles, medical equipment vulnerable patients rely on, footballs our children play with, telephones, toothpaste, trash bags, and so much more. Instead of producing it under the strictest environmental regulations in the world, our state will be doing more business with foreign regimes that have abysmal environmental and human rights standards.

"If the Governor's going to talk about the environment then he needs to be upfront with all of the facts. Catastrophic wildfires can emit as much particulate matter in a single week as all of the cars on the road in California for a year. The Governor should be using his time to protect our communities at risk from wildfire by managing our forests and vegetation instead of banning cars that everyday Californians use to provide for their families."

Senator Grove authored an Op-ed about the attack on the oil and gas industry as published in the Bakersfield Californian. Click here to read it.

Capitol Office

1021 O Street, Room 7150 Sacramento, CA 95814 Phone: (916) 651-4012 Fax: (916) 651-4916

Bakersfield Office

5701 Truxtun Ave., Suite 150 Bakersfield, CA 93309 Phone: (661) 323-0443 Fax: (661) 323-0446

Fresno Office

567 W. Shaw Ave., Suite A-3 Fresno, CA 93704 Phone:  559-243-8580

facebook Facebook

twitter Twitter

instagram Instagram

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

Home

About Shannon Biography Committees 12th Senate District Map

Biography

Committees

12th Senate District Map

Legislation My Legislation Bill Search Submit a Legislative Proposal

My Legislation

Bill Search

Submit a Legislative Proposal

Newsroom Releases / Editorials Photos

Releases / Editorials

Photos

Resources California Senate Fellows Program Coronavirus Information Education Register to Vote Unclaimed Property Veteran Resources

California Senate Fellows Program

Coronavirus Information

Education

Register to Vote

Unclaimed Property

Veteran Resources

Contact me My Offices E-mail the Senator Subscribe

My Offices

E-mail the Senator

Subscribe

Governor Newsom More Interested in Headlines than Solutions

More News

View All

Breadcrumb

Aug 29
Senator Shannon Grove Celebrates Advancement of Key Bills for Special Education and Rural Healthcare, Expresses Disappointment Over Scrapping of Leno’s Law
Aug 27
VIDEO: Celebrity advocate Paris Hilton calls for passage of child protection measure ahead of key vote
Aug 25
Senator Shannon Grove and Assemblyman David Tangipa  Honor Retired NFL Quarterback, Derek Carr
Aug 21
Senator Shannon Grove opposes Democrats' attempt to override the will of California voters