Governor Gavin Newsom, Senator Brian W. Jones (R-Santee), and several other legislators held a bill signing ceremony in San Francisco at 4200 Geary Blvd., (the site of a planned senior community under construction), this morning to announce enactment of several housing and homelessness-related measures.

The two major bills signed into law were Senate Bill 6, the “Middle Class Housing Act of 2022,” authored by Senator Anna Caballero (D-Merced); and Assembly Bill 2011, the “Affordable Housing and High Road Jobs Act of 2022,” authored by Assemblymember Buffy Wicks (D-Oakland). Both bills help streamline the approval process for housing developments planned in “mixed-use” areas that already include retail, office, or parking facilities.

Jones was instrumental in helping secure bipartisan support for both bills among his colleagues in the Senate and Assembly.

SB 6 is supported by numerous groups including AARP and the California Hispanic Chambers of Commerce while AB 2011 is sponsored by the California Conference of Carpenters and the California Housing Consortium.

“As a civilized society and the 5th largest economy in the world, California has a responsibility and duty to help ensure that Californians have access to affordable housing. Every Californian should be able to attain a home they can afford,” stated Senator Brian W. Jones. “SB 6 and AB 2011 will help cut some of the ‘red tape’ that currently strangles good housing proposals to death. The bipartisanship, and teamwork from both developers and labor, demonstrated here today shows the urgency and commitment necessary to tackle the housing crisis and build more housing, faster. Developers, labor, and the state working together, this is how your legislature is supposed to work. Now let's build some homes!”

Earlier in the day, Jones’s Senate Bill 1421, which will add a person with a developmental disability who has experienced homelessness to the California Interagency Council on Homelessness (CAL ICH) advisory committee, was also signed into law by the Governor. The mission of CAL ICH is to develop policies and identify resources, benefits, and services to prevent and work toward ending homelessness in California.

“Homelessness has hit California hard and is particularly tough on our most vulnerable community members,” continued Senator Brian W. Jones. “Under SB 1421, the person appointed to fill this new seat on the advisory committee will help bring an added and valuable perspective to the table as the Council works on innovative and thoughtful solutions to tackle homelessness.”

Capitol Office

1021 O Street, Room 7640 Sacramento, CA 95814 Phone: (916) 651-4040 Fax: (916) 651-4940

Scripps Ranch Office

10650 Treena Street #110 San Diego, CA 92131 Phone: (858) 547-3818

Escondido Office

720 N. Broadway, Suite 110 Escondido, CA 92025 Phone: (760) 796-4655

facebook Facebook

twitter Twitter

instagram Instagram

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

Home

About Brian Biography

Biography

Legislation My Legislation Committees Bill Search

My Legislation

Committees

Bill Search

Newsroom Releases/Editorials In The News Audio/Video Are You Kidding Me? Photos Media Kit

Releases/Editorials

In The News

Audio/Video

Are You Kidding Me?

Photos

Media Kit

Contact Me Certificate Request District Internship Program District Map E-mail the Senator Legislative Proposal My Offices Subscribe to the Mailing List

Certificate Request

District Internship Program

District Map

E-mail the Senator

Legislative Proposal

My Offices

Subscribe to the Mailing List

Governor Newsom, Senator Brian Jones, and a bipartisan group of legislators announce new laws aimed at helping tackle housing and homelessness issues

More News

ICYMI

View All

Breadcrumb

Aug 6
California Republicans’ Growing Impact on Social Media
Jul 16
Leader Jones Stands on Steps of the Capitol Opposing the Anti-Charter School Bill
Jul 16
AB 84 Charter Schools Press Conference
Jul 15
Leader Jones Demands Accountability on Dangerous Sexually Violent Predator Program

Jun 17
2025
$8-a-gallon gas? Senate Minority Leader Brian W. Jones requests audit of gas price hikes
Jun 9
2025
Nixed bill could have prevented LA unrest, California minority leader says
Jun 8
2025
California lawmaker warns Menendez brothers' case is driving return of bill to release thousands of killers
Jun 3
2025
Ramona nonprofit, resident recognized with Senate District 40 awards