Following the Governor’s release of his $322.3 billion budget proposal, Assemblywoman Alexandra Macedo (R-Tulare) issued the following statement:
“I am appalled at the lack of consideration Gavin Newsom continues to have for the people he serves. Only in California can the Governor raid $7.1 billion from the state’s savings account and declare a revenue surplus of $363 million. The Governor needs to stop being deceitful with the people’s money, and prioritize services that impact everyday California’s lives. It is time he admits his policies have failed the People of California, and it is time for change.
“Countless Californians have heartbreakingly lost their homes, businesses, and jobs in the Southern California fires. My deepest sympathies and prayers are with these communities.
“My sadness shifts to anger since Governor Newsom has still not prioritized fire prevention and resource management. Things like properly staffing fire operations, forest management, and water infrastructure has been necessary for decades. This lack of proper attention has put California in a reactive situation, rather than a proactive approach. Had these things been funded, crisis like these could be mitigated or avoided.
“It is shocking to see homes obliterated, entire communities vanish and the devastation to our great state. The entire region is suffering losses in so many ways. Children are missing out on valuable time in their schools. Businesses are forced to shut their doors and hope there is something there when they are able to return. This is a complete shutdown of the local economy. Although you cannot put a price on what these poor people are going through, there is an estimated total economic cost of $50 billion.
“The Governor does not appear to have a plan to address the insolvency of the state’s FAIR plan to rebuild the homes, businesses and jobs lost. There also doesn’t seem to be a plan to address crisis such as this going forward.
“The state of California is currently in a state of emergency in regard to Bird Flu and the fires. Yet budget news today showed that the Governor doesn’t put his money where his mouth is. Nothing in the budget brings more water infrastructure. There is no money to address the impacts of the bird flu or funding the programs that could prevent similar situations from entering our state in the future. Yet, he found the money for lawsuits to ‘Trump proof’ California while Southern California is burning. The priority issues in the state of California must end, and it is up to our leaders to serve and protect the men, women, and children of our golden state.”
###