SACRAMENTO –
Today, Assemblymember Greg Wallis announced that Governor Gavin Newsom signed his bill,
AB 2186
, as part of a bipartisan public safety package aimed at curbing illegal sideshows and street takeovers. These new laws strengthen law enforcement’s ability to address the growing danger of illegal speed contests, drifting, and other reckless activities that disrupt communities and endanger lives.
AB 2186 clarifies that vehicles involved in sideshows or exhibitions of speed in parking lots are subject to the same impoundment laws as those on roadways. This critical measure ensures that law enforcement has the tools to stop dangerous activities no matter where they occur, preventing participants from simply moving sideshows to parking lots to avoid consequences.
“Illegal sideshows aren’t just disruptive; they’re deadly,” said Assemblymember Wallis. “This bill makes it clear that reckless behavior, whether on the road or in parking lots, will face serious consequences. We’re giving law enforcement stronger tools to keep our streets and communities safe, and that’s something we can all get behind.”
Governor Newsom highlighted the importance of these new laws:
“Sideshows are reckless, criminal activities that endanger our communities. We have seen too many people killed or hurt at these events. Today, we are sending a clear message to anyone considering participating in or attending a sideshow: stricter penalties are in place, including the potential loss of your vehicle.”
As part of the broader public safety package signed yesterday, AB 2186 is one of four bipartisan bills addressing the rise in illegal street takeovers and sideshows, alongside:
AB 1978
by Assemblymember Kate Sanchez (R-Rancho Santa Margarita) – Vehicles: speed contests
AB 2807
by Assemblymember Carlos Villapudua (D-Stockton) – Vehicles: sideshows and street takeovers
AB 3085
by Assemblymember Mike Gipson (D-Carson) – Vehicles: removal and impoundment
These measures provide law enforcement with enhanced tools to impound vehicles, hold organizers and participants accountable, and standardize the definitions of sideshows and street takeovers across California.
Governor Newsom’s announcement of this public safety package can be found
here
###