SACRAMENTO (
July 16, 2024) – Assemblymember Diane Dixon (R-Newport Beach) provides an update on her legislative package:
During June and July, the Legislature was hard at work holding final policy committee hearings and voting on hundreds of bills as they moved towards the end of the legislative process.
This month, two of the Assemblymember’s bills passed through the Senate, were presented to the Governor and signed into law.
“I am very pleased to announce that Assembly Bill 1774 has been signed into law,” said Assemblymember Dixon. “This new law will help keep our communities safer and protect our youth by prohibiting the sale and use of E-Bike speed modifying kits. It ensures that people can still enjoy our wonderful communities without having to be on guard for speeding E-Bikes.”
Assembly Bill 2393, a bill important to the district and sponsored by Orange County, also passed through the Senate without opposition and was signed on Monday.
“This law extends the Newport Dunes Lease public trust lease for the lands at Newport Bay from fifty years to sixty-six years, which will give Orange County more flexibility when creating land lease agreements,” said Assemblymember Dixon. “This will also allow for additional planning, construction, and investment recovery time for revitalizing the Newport Dunes facility and will make it easier to secure financing for the various projects associated with this effort.”
This month Assemblymember Dixon additionally introduced House Resolution 105, which unanimously passed through the Assembly Committee on Health and the Assembly Floor. This bi-partisan Resolution focuses on bringing more awareness to opioid abuse and encourages the usage of non-opioid pain management therapies as a safer alternative.
“The opioid crisis continues to plague California,” said Assemblymember Dixon, “Unfortunately, many of those who fall into addiction first began their dependence on illegal drugs with a legal prescription for opioids to treat acute pain. As medical science continues to evolve, and new non-opioid treatments become accessible, the State’s health agencies and our medical professionals should be educated on their availability and use. Pain is very real for many patients, and providing non-opioid pharmacological treatments for them is an important component of stemming the tide on the opioid crisis.”
Several other bills authored by Assemblymember Dixon are still progressing through the Senate. AB 2504, which would name the Black Abalone as California’s first official state seashell, is currently awaiting its final Floor debate before being voted on by the Senate. AB 2817, which will allow the California Transportation Commission to consider relinquishing a segment of State Route 1 to the city of Laguna Beach, has unanimously passed through the Senate Committee on Transportation and is waiting to be heard by the Senate Committee on Appropriations.
Finally, ACR 182 has passed through the Assembly and is waiting to be presented to the Senate. This measure is focused on promoting and encouraging solutions and resources aimed towards eliminating the Great Pacific Garbage Patch and ensuring the health of the oceans and coastlines of California.
With July comes summer recess for the Assembly and Senate. During this time, legislators are preparing for the final push in August where they will be voting on hundreds of bills for the end of session. The Governor can then choose to sign a bill, veto it or take no action – which will cause the bill to become law without his signature.