SACRAMENTO - Senator Shannon Grove ( R-Bakersfield ) introduced Senate Bill 224 , which will help law enforcement agencies combat agriculture theft. This bill will create a new category for grand theft of agricultural property. SB 224 will also provide that the fines collected for this crime be recirculated back to current agriculture and rural-based crime prevention programs.

“California feeds the nation,” said Senator Grove. “When thieves steal from farmers it means consumers end up paying more out of their pocket for goods and services. Over the last few years, our farmers have been punished by bad policies coming out of Sacramento. This bill is a necessary first step in showing our agriculturalists that Sacramento supports them in their efforts to meet the demand of a growing population.”

“I applaud Senator Grove for introducing this bill that will help our agricultural community in Tulare County. Agricultural crime is one of my top priorities here in Tulare County and it impacts all of us, whether we’re directly involved in agriculture or a consumer of it,” said Tulare County Sheriff Mike Boudreaux. “These tougher penalties should make thieves think twice when they want to steal from our partners in agriculture.”

Tulare County is the top agricultural producing county in California. Tulare County alone suffered from $1 million in agricultural theft losses in 2018. Stolen equipment includes, but is not limited to, tractors and all-terrain vehicles (ATVs). These types of thefts not only affect the pocketbooks of farmers and business owners, but also the production of consumer goods.

Capitol Office

1021 O Street, Room 7150 Sacramento, CA 95814 Phone: (916) 651-4012 Fax: (916) 651-4916

Bakersfield Office

5701 Truxtun Ave., Suite 150 Bakersfield, CA 93309 Phone: (661) 323-0443 Fax: (661) 323-0446

Fresno Office

567 W. Shaw Ave., Suite A-3 Fresno, CA 93704 Phone:  559-243-8580

facebook Facebook

twitter Twitter

instagram Instagram

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

Home

About Shannon Biography Committees 12th Senate District Map

Biography

Committees

12th Senate District Map

Legislation My Legislation Bill Search Submit a Legislative Proposal

My Legislation

Bill Search

Submit a Legislative Proposal

Newsroom Releases / Editorials Photos

Releases / Editorials

Photos

Resources California Senate Fellows Program Coronavirus Information Education Register to Vote Unclaimed Property Veteran Resources

California Senate Fellows Program

Coronavirus Information

Education

Register to Vote

Unclaimed Property

Veteran Resources

Contact me My Offices E-mail the Senator Subscribe

My Offices

E-mail the Senator

Subscribe

Grove Introduces First Bill to Protect Rural Agriculture

More News

View All

Breadcrumb

Aug 29
Senator Shannon Grove Celebrates Advancement of Key Bills for Special Education and Rural Healthcare, Expresses Disappointment Over Scrapping of Leno’s Law
Aug 27
VIDEO: Celebrity advocate Paris Hilton calls for passage of child protection measure ahead of key vote
Aug 25
Senator Shannon Grove and Assemblyman David Tangipa  Honor Retired NFL Quarterback, Derek Carr
Aug 21
Senator Shannon Grove opposes Democrats' attempt to override the will of California voters