Senator Shannon Grove (R-Bakersfield) announced that her bill providing financial relief to parents of K-12 students for expenses they paid while shifting to virtual learning, has passed the Senate Governance and Finance Committee.

Specifically, the bill would reimburse parents for 50% of qualified expenses related to virtual learning through a tax credit up to $2,250 per student. The qualified expenses include tutoring services, special needs services, books and supplies, computer equipment, including related software, internet services and other equipment.

“SB 610 will provide relief to families by reimbursing some of the costs parents have paid out of pocket,” said Senator Grove. “This is one thing the state can do to take some of the financial burden off of parents and ensure children have the tools they need to be successful.”

Nearly every school has been forced to transition to some level of virtual learning due to Governor Newsom’s shutdown of K-12 schools. As schools work to reopen, many have indicted their interest in continuing to offer some level of distance-learning programs. However, research has demonstrated that the dramatic shift to online learning risks widening educational inequalities which are only made worse by the financial costs involved in virtual learning.

“This has been an incredibly hard year for all of us, and has impacted our lives substantially, this tax credit will go a long way towards helping,” said Ben H., a parent from Scotts Valley.

This week, Ben H. along with hundreds of other parents signed a petition in support of SB 610. If signed into law, this bill will provide a much needed tax relief for parents and will ensure students have access to the tools they need to learn.

SB 610 passed with a bipartisan vote of 5 to 0. The measure will next be heard by the Senate Appropriations Committee.

Capitol Office

1021 O Street, Room 7150 Sacramento, CA 95814 Phone: (916) 651-4012 Fax: (916) 651-4916

Bakersfield Office

5701 Truxtun Ave., Suite 150 Bakersfield, CA 93309 Phone: (661) 323-0443 Fax: (661) 323-0446

Fresno Office

567 W. Shaw Ave., Suite A-3 Fresno, CA 93704 Phone:  559-243-8580

facebook Facebook

twitter Twitter

instagram Instagram

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

Home

About Shannon Biography Committees 12th Senate District Map

Biography

Committees

12th Senate District Map

Legislation My Legislation Bill Search Submit a Legislative Proposal

My Legislation

Bill Search

Submit a Legislative Proposal

Newsroom Releases / Editorials Photos

Releases / Editorials

Photos

Resources California Senate Fellows Program Coronavirus Information Education Register to Vote Unclaimed Property Veteran Resources

California Senate Fellows Program

Coronavirus Information

Education

Register to Vote

Unclaimed Property

Veteran Resources

Contact me My Offices E-mail the Senator Subscribe

My Offices

E-mail the Senator

Subscribe

Grove’s Virtual Learning Tax Credit Bill Passes Senate Governance and Finance Committee

More News

View All

Breadcrumb

Aug 29
Senator Shannon Grove Celebrates Advancement of Key Bills for Special Education and Rural Healthcare, Expresses Disappointment Over Scrapping of Leno’s Law
Aug 27
VIDEO: Celebrity advocate Paris Hilton calls for passage of child protection measure ahead of key vote
Aug 25
Senator Shannon Grove and Assemblyman David Tangipa  Honor Retired NFL Quarterback, Derek Carr
Aug 21
Senator Shannon Grove opposes Democrats' attempt to override the will of California voters