The “House of Origin” deadline, when all Assembly bills have to be passed on to the Senate or wait until next year, is in the books.
For Californians wondering what the Legislature would do to bring down costs, promote public safety, ensure a reliable water supply and protect democracy, this year was a mixed bag.
THE GOOD:
🚔 Republicans and law enforcement groups defeated two radical anti-cop bills – one to
ban police dogs
and another to
make it harder to search suspects
💊 Bills to fight the fentanyl epidemic by
improving mental health and expanding treatment for Californians struggling with addiction
passed unanimously (but Republicans are not done fighting to hold fentanyl traffickers accountable).
🐘 Republican-authored bills to
reduce wildfire risk
improve law enforcement training
and
recover illegally-owned guns
sailed through the Assembly with bipartisan support.
THE BAD:
📚 Democrats keep trying to take away local control from education, this time advancing a bill to direct the California Department of Education to
issue top-down guidance on how schools discuss sensitive issues
🚜 After struggling through years of drought and expensive new mandates from the state, the farmers who feed California got hit again this week with Democratic bills to
increase costs
and
erode water rights
advancing through the Assembly.
🧾 Despite all the problems facing California, Democrats tackled the less-than-critical issue of
banning businesses from automatically printing receipts
. #priorities
THE UGLY:
🏛️ Democrats
hate that voters have the power to overturn their radical left-wing policies
, so they pushed through an attack on California’s system of direct democracy by making it harder to get a referendum on the ballot. Wonder if Newsom will speak up against this authoritarian move…
⚖️ Just ahead of National Gun Violence Prevention Day, Democrats blocked an effort to
increase the penalty for using a firearm to commit a violent crime
, proving they aren’t serious about protecting Californians from gun crime.
⛽️ Democrats passed two bills to
continue punishing drivers
– raiding gas tax money for projects that will make commutes even worse.
###