Senate Republican Leader Shannon Grove (R-Bakersfield) released the following statement after Governor Gavin Newsom signed Senate Bill 113, a housing trailer bill into law. The newly-signed legislation addresses the state’s plan to spend $331 million in national mortgage settlement funds. Senate Democrats passed SB 113 on a partisan vote.

The $331 million was created as part of the National Settlement Defense Fund in 2012 following the mortgage crisis. The funds were intended to help distressed homeowners who were victims of predatory lending. But Governor Jerry Brown used the funds to backfill the state budget. The National Asian American Coalition (NAAC) sued the state of California in 2012 for the return of the funds and was finally victorious in July 2019.

Both the previous and current Democratic governors, Brown and Newsom, appealed earlier court rulings against their actions until the California Supreme Court directed the state of California to assist homeowners as originally promised.

In September, Governor Newsom’s administration testified that it plans to take a year or more to set up a nonprofit trust that would invest the funds in still-unknown ways, and that it would only spend investment profits, not the actual settlement funds.

“Since 2015, Senate Republicans have been fighting to help struggling homeowners who suffered during the mortgage meltdown. Families should have had their victory at long last, but instead the Newsom administration has concocted a scheme to study the issue for another year and then channel the funds through a vague and possibly risky investment trust.

“This decision will create a needless delay of potentially two more years before homeowners might see a dollar in assistance from unknown investment profits.  Also, if the investments lose money, there is no guarantee that the trust would have any profits to spend on homeowner assistance.

“Families in California already face affordability issues in our state, and now this overdue assistance is delayed once again. This legislation should have simply directed the state to immediately spend the $331 million for its intended purpose of assisting homeowners, not create more delays and disappointments,” said Senate Republican Leader Shannon Grove.

Capitol Office

1021 O Street, Room 7150 Sacramento, CA 95814 Phone: (916) 651-4012 Fax: (916) 651-4916

Bakersfield Office

5701 Truxtun Ave., Suite 150 Bakersfield, CA 93309 Phone: (661) 323-0443 Fax: (661) 323-0446

Fresno Office

567 W. Shaw Ave., Suite A-3 Fresno, CA 93704 Phone:  559-243-8580

facebook Facebook

twitter Twitter

instagram Instagram

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

Home

About Shannon Biography Committees 12th Senate District Map

Biography

Committees

12th Senate District Map

Legislation My Legislation Bill Search Submit a Legislative Proposal

My Legislation

Bill Search

Submit a Legislative Proposal

Newsroom Releases / Editorials Photos

Releases / Editorials

Photos

Resources California Senate Fellows Program Coronavirus Information Education Register to Vote Unclaimed Property Veteran Resources

California Senate Fellows Program

Coronavirus Information

Education

Register to Vote

Unclaimed Property

Veteran Resources

Contact me My Offices E-mail the Senator Subscribe

My Offices

E-mail the Senator

Subscribe

Housing Legislation Delays Relief for Struggling Homeowners, Sets Up Vague Investment Scheme

More News

View All

Breadcrumb

Aug 29
Senator Shannon Grove Celebrates Advancement of Key Bills for Special Education and Rural Healthcare, Expresses Disappointment Over Scrapping of Leno’s Law
Aug 27
VIDEO: Celebrity advocate Paris Hilton calls for passage of child protection measure ahead of key vote
Aug 25
Senator Shannon Grove and Assemblyman David Tangipa  Honor Retired NFL Quarterback, Derek Carr
Aug 21
Senator Shannon Grove opposes Democrats' attempt to override the will of California voters