Senator Strickland with Mayor Shama-Hacohen, Mayor Burns, City Council woman Larrea-Van Der Mark with members of the Israel Global Foundation and the Israeli Delegation. For high-resolution photos, please contact Jacqui.Nguyen or Corbin Carson .

In a proud moment for international diplomacy and community connection today, California State Senator Tony Strickland, representing the 36th Senate District, Huntington Beach Mayor Pat Burns, and Huntington Beach City Council woman Gracey Larrea-Van Der Mark welcomed Ramat Gan Mayor Carmel Shama-Hacohen and reconfirmed the establishment of a Twin City partnership.

“Today marks an important occasion for both cities, which are home to diverse populations that value education, opportunity, and civic pride,” said Senator Strickland . “Given the upheaval occurring on the international stage, we are taking this opportunity to learn from one another. By doing so, we can enrich our understanding and open new doors for our residents. It is a privilege to be here as we reaffirm the lasting twin city relationship between Huntington Beach and Ramat Gan. This is not just a ceremonial event—it is a celebration of friendship, cooperation, and shared aspirations.”

Today’s ceremonial signing agreement included Senator Strickland presenting Mayor Shama-Hacohen with a Senate Resolution.

“I am delighted to come to Huntington Beach to sign our twin cities agreement and further strengthen the bond between our communities. I thank Mayor Pat Burns, Senator Tony Strickland, and Council woman Gracey Larrea-Van Der Mark for standing with Israel, supporting the Jewish community, and championing our shared values,” said Mayor Shama-Hacohen .

Ramat Gan is a thriving, inland city just east of Tel Aviv, Israel. The signing ceremony marked a significant step in strengthening collaboration and fostering cultural exchange between the two cities. Both vibrant communities share values of innovation, community engagement, and global connectivity and the Twin City partnership will promote goodwill and increase opportunities for both cities.

“Like Huntington Beach, Ramat Gan is a place where sports, natural spaces, and a thriving economy are central to community life,” said Mayor Burns . “I supported this partnership when it was first brought forward because I believe in the value of solidarity and friendship, especially in today’s world. Our renewed Twin City partnership is more than a formality. It is a promise to work together, learn from one another, and strengthen the bonds between our people.”

“I am especially looking forward to learning more about Ramat Gan’s culture, values, and traditions, while also sharing the heart and spirit of Huntington Beach. Partnerships like this give us the chance to celebrate our similarities, appreciate our differences, and work together toward common goals,” said Council woman Larrea-Van Der Mark .

Capitol:

District Office:

301 Main Street, Suite 212 Huntington Beach, CA 92648 (714) 374-4000

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

<d

Home

About Tony Biography Committees

Biography

Committees

Newsroom Releases / Opinions Newsletters Audio / Video Photos

Releases / Opinions

Newsletters

Audio / Video

Photos

Contact Me District Map My Offices Scheduling Requests

District Map

My Offices

Scheduling Requests

Huntington Beach, CA and Ramat Gan, Israel deepen international partnership

Breadcrumb