Sacramento- Senator Rosilicie Ochoa Bogh (R-Yucaipa), Chair of the Inland Empire Caucus, and other caucus members, sent a letter to Governor Newsom and legislative leaders requesting $2.245 billion in budget funds for transportation infrastructure projects to help residents and businesses thrive in the Inland Empire.
“The Inland Empire has been one of the fastest-growing regions in California. To meet the needs of this growth, dedicated funding for transportation infrastructure is vital,” said Senator Ochoa Bogh. “With a budget surplus of $31 billion, the state has the opportunity to support transportation projects that will greatly benefit our region by reducing traffic congestion, streamlining goods and freight movement, and improving the lives of our residents. I would like to commend my 16 colleagues for their collaborative bipartisan and bicameral effort.”
“The Inland Empire is a major part of California’s economy. Clean, modern and reliable transportation infrastructure is essential for our region to continue to ‘deliver the goods’ for our local communities and the state,” said Assemblymember James C. Ramos (D-Highland), Vice Chair of the Inland Empire Caucus. “I urge that this budget request be approved.”
“The Riverside County Transportation Commission welcomes the partnership with the Inland Empire Caucus to bring much-needed state investment for transportation projects that will connect our communities safely, reduce traffic congestion, support climate resiliency, and promote equity and economic prosperity in our region,” said Riverside County Transportation Commission (RCTC) Chair V. Manuel Perez, Riverside County Supervisor for the Fourth District.
“We are thrilled to have the support of the Inland Empire Caucus for critically important transportation projects in our region. Riverside and San Bernardino Counties continue to grow at a rapid rate and share a similar challenge of addressing the needs of commuters moving into the region for more affordable housing and the ever-increasing goods movement industry,” said Curt Hagman, President of the San Bernardino County Transportation Authority (SBCTA). “If funded, the projects will greatly assist our efforts to reduce congestion, improve air quality, and enhance the overall quality of life for our communities. Our thanks to Caucus Chair Senator Ochoa Bogh and the entire caucus for their support.”
Click Here
to view the full letter.

Capitol Office

1021 O Street, Room 7220 Sacramento, CA 95814 Phone: (916) 651-4019 Fax: (916) 651-4919

Redlands Office

1758 Orange Tree Lane, Suite B Redlands, CA 92374 Phone: (909) 335-0271 Fax: (909) 335-0282

facebook Facebook

twitter Twitter

instagram Instagram

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

Home

About Rosilicie My Legislation Current Legislation Legislative Accomplishments 2024 Legislative Accomplishments 2023 Legislative Accomplishments 2022-21 Bill Search Committees Biography

My Legislation Current Legislation Legislative Accomplishments 2024 Legislative Accomplishments 2023 Legislative Accomplishments 2022-21 Bill Search

Current Legislation

Legislative Accomplishments 2024

Legislative Accomplishments 2023

Legislative Accomplishments 2022-21

Bill Search

Committees

Biography

District District Map Virtual Insurance Town Hall Virtual PSPS Town Hall Wildfire Resources

District Map

Virtual Insurance Town Hall

Virtual PSPS Town Hall

Wildfire Resources

Newsroom Releases/Editorials

Releases/Editorials

Contact Me Constituent Services E-mail the Senator Look Ahead Mobile Office Hours My Offices State Agencies Subscribe

Constituent Services

E-mail the Senator

Look Ahead

Mobile Office Hours

My Offices

State Agencies

Subscribe

IE Caucus Works to Secure Transportation Infrastructure Funding for the Inland Empire

Breadcrumb