The Inland Empire is one of the fastest growing regions in the state, experiencing dramatic growth in both population and the movement of goods in recent years. This growth has created significant competition for space on our roads and highways between trucks transporting goods and residents commuting to work. We must ensure our transportation network keeps pace with our population and economic growth.

The state has a budget surplus this fiscal year, and projects a surplus of $31 billion for the fiscal year beginning in July. Add to that robust cap-and-trade revenues and considerable new funds promised by the federal infrastructure package, and there is excellent opportunity to support projects that will greatly benefit the 4.6 million residents of the Inland Empire by reducing traffic congestion, streamlining the movement of goods and freight, and improving the quality of life for residents.

As your representative in the State Senate and during my time as the Chair of the Inland Empire Caucus, I fully understand how vital it is that our region secure some of these surplus funds for our transportation and infrastructure project needs.

The state budget for the upcoming fiscal year first started being fleshed out in January. Seizing the opportunity, I along with many other members of the IE Caucus sent a letter to Governor Newsom, Senate President pro Tempore Toni Atkins and Assembly Speaker Anthony Rendon requesting $2.245 billion in budget funds for transportation infrastructure projects for our region.

We worked with the regional transportation planning agencies, the Riverside County Transportation Commission (RCTC) and the San Bernardino County Transportation Authority (SBCTA) to provide with the letter a portfolio of multimodal transportation projects that will connect our diverse communities, offer mobility choices, promote economic prosperity, reduce traffic congestion, streamline the movement of goods and freight, and advance a climate-resilient future.

Some of those projects include:

Interstate 10 Corridor Freight and Express : This project will provide two express lanes in each direction from just east of I-15 to the City of Redlands, connecting to the I- 10 Corridor Contract 1 express lanes currently under construction.

Coachella Valley-San Gorgonio Rail Corridor Service : This project would provide passenger rail service between LA and Coachella Valley.

Interstate 10 Bypass : This project would build a new road south of I-10 linking Banning to Cabazon.

In the letter, we also pointed out that the residents of both counties have demonstrated their commitment to improving transportation problems in the region by approving local sales tax measures to provide an ongoing source of funds for transportation projects. Even so, local desire and commitment still would require a significant infusion of state and federal funding to deliver these regionally transformative transportation projects.

I commend my legislative colleagues and the members of the RCTC and SBCTA for their collaborative and bipartisan effort. The requested funds would provide some much-needed relief and greatly assist in our efforts to reduce congestion, improve air quality and enhance the overall quality of life in San Bernardino and Riverside counties.

I will continue to keep you informed on our progress in securing the transportation funds. Also, please feel free to contact my office for more information on this or any other state issue.

Capitol Office

1021 O Street, Room 7220 Sacramento, CA 95814 Phone: (916) 651-4019 Fax: (916) 651-4919

Redlands Office

1758 Orange Tree Lane, Suite B Redlands, CA 92374 Phone: (909) 335-0271 Fax: (909) 335-0282

facebook Facebook

twitter Twitter

instagram Instagram

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

Home

About Rosilicie My Legislation Current Legislation Legislative Accomplishments 2024 Legislative Accomplishments 2023 Legislative Accomplishments 2022-21 Bill Search Committees Biography

My Legislation Current Legislation Legislative Accomplishments 2024 Legislative Accomplishments 2023 Legislative Accomplishments 2022-21 Bill Search

Current Legislation

Legislative Accomplishments 2024

Legislative Accomplishments 2023

Legislative Accomplishments 2022-21

Bill Search

Committees

Biography

District District Map Virtual Insurance Town Hall Virtual PSPS Town Hall Wildfire Resources

District Map

Virtual Insurance Town Hall

Virtual PSPS Town Hall

Wildfire Resources

Newsroom Releases/Editorials

Releases/Editorials

Contact Me Constituent Services E-mail the Senator Look Ahead Mobile Office Hours My Offices State Agencies Subscribe

Constituent Services

E-mail the Senator

Look Ahead

Mobile Office Hours

My Offices

State Agencies

Subscribe

IE Caucus Works to Secure Transportation Infrastructure Funding for the Inland Empire

Breadcrumb