Published in the San Diego Union-Tribune

As regional leaders, we face unprecedented challenges. The decisions we make today to address those challenges will be felt by those we serve long after we leave office. This moment of crisis presents us with a choice: what kind of region, state and country do we want to be? The choice begins with our state’s response to the COVID-19 pandemic. In an April commentary , I encouraged readers to remember it is up to “We the People” to ensure the governor’s unilateral infringements on our precious liberties were temporary, narrowly tailored and the least restrictive means to achieving the state’s goal of ending the pandemic.

Sadly, while our knowledge of the disease has evolved dramatically, the state’s clamping down on our liberties has not let up. Businesses have been irreversibly damaged, houses of worship have been shuttered and the mental health of countless Californians continues to decline. It didn’t need to be this way.

It’s time that leaders at all levels of government recognize the social and economic havoc wreaked by lockdowns and take a more thoughtful approach to addressing the pandemic. We must allow businesses to implement safe protocols and trust they will enforce them. We must reopen our schools immediately, especially in light of the overwhelming evidence that the disease isn’t spreading in schools. We must restore the God-given right to worship and allow Californians to access the social care and community they desperately need, by fully and safely opening churches.

Our leaders at the federal level — which I am glad will include Rep. Darrell Issa — must commit to a significant investment in our transportation infrastructure and regional priorities such as the Tijuana River Valley restoration. It’s time for leadership on these issues, and I know our next congressman is committed to these efforts. I am also pleased that East County appears to have joined me in voting for Joel Anderson to represent us on the Board of Supervisors. Joel made a campaign pledge to streamline housing approval so that all San Diegans could attain the dream of home ownership and afford to raise their families here in our beautiful region. If his lead holds, Supervisor-elect Anderson will have my partnership.

Finally, I strongly encourage the Legislature to reconsider my homelessness package that presented an alternative to the unworkable solutions proposed by Sacramento politicians thus far. The package included five measures aimed at moving Californians currently homeless into temporary, transitional housing. It also emphasized a compassionate assessment of each homeless person’s behavior, mental health and substance issues before placing that person in temporary housing. Finally, the measures emphasized utilization of existing nonprofits, charities and faith-based housing programs, rather than setting up new bureaucracies. We don’t need to reinvent the wheel, but we have to act now.

I am ready to work with anyone from any party on these priorities. The question is whether others are willing to do the same. This is the time for choosing — and action.

Brian Jones, California Senate Republican Caucus chair, Santee

Capitol Office

1021 O Street, Room 7640 Sacramento, CA 95814 Phone: (916) 651-4040 Fax: (916) 651-4940

Scripps Ranch Office

10650 Treena Street #110 San Diego, CA 92131 Phone: (858) 547-3818

Escondido Office

720 N. Broadway, Suite 110 Escondido, CA 92025 Phone: (760) 796-4655

facebook Facebook

twitter Twitter

instagram Instagram

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

Home

About Brian Biography

Biography

Legislation My Legislation Committees Bill Search

My Legislation

Committees

Bill Search

Newsroom Releases/Editorials In The News Audio/Video Are You Kidding Me? Photos Media Kit

Releases/Editorials

In The News

Audio/Video

Are You Kidding Me?

Photos

Media Kit

Contact Me Certificate Request District Internship Program District Map E-mail the Senator Legislative Proposal My Offices Subscribe to the Mailing List

Certificate Request

District Internship Program

District Map

E-mail the Senator

Legislative Proposal

My Offices

Subscribe to the Mailing List

It is the time for choosing and action

More News

ICYMI

View All

Breadcrumb

Aug 6
California Republicans’ Growing Impact on Social Media
Jul 16
Leader Jones Stands on Steps of the Capitol Opposing the Anti-Charter School Bill
Jul 16
AB 84 Charter Schools Press Conference
Jul 15
Leader Jones Demands Accountability on Dangerous Sexually Violent Predator Program

Jun 17
2025
$8-a-gallon gas? Senate Minority Leader Brian W. Jones requests audit of gas price hikes
Jun 9
2025
Nixed bill could have prevented LA unrest, California minority leader says
Jun 8
2025
California lawmaker warns Menendez brothers' case is driving return of bill to release thousands of killers
Jun 3
2025
Ramona nonprofit, resident recognized with Senate District 40 awards