Sacramento, Calif. – Assemblyman Joe Patterson, R-Rocklin, today took the oath of office as the new representative for the 5
th
Assembly District in Sacramento, vowing to prioritize issues and problems facing constituents in his district. Assemblyman Patterson pledges to fight for the quality-of-life residents enjoy in Placer and El Dorado Counties while ensuring that his constituents have a voice in the State Legislature.
“As a father of four, I have always believed that families should have the opportunity to raise their children in a safe and prosperous place, while feeling they always have a voice in Sacramento. Serving my community on the city council as mayor, I am eager to bring my local experience and the voices of my constituents to the State Capitol.”
Within an hour of being sworn into office, Assemblyman Patterson introduced two bills to combat a critical issue in his district, AB 18 and AB 19, to fight the fentanyl crisis in the state. Both of these bills are a part of a robust bill package that Assemblyman Patterson plans to introduce as the Fentanyl Crisis Legislative Package.
“The real epidemic in my district is kids’ access to deadly counterfeit pills. Fentanyl-related deaths in in Placer County increased 450% between 2019 and 2021 with half of the victims being under 25 years old. Placer County’s one pill can kill campaign has done tremendous work and I am committed to addressing the most pressing concerns in my district and that starts with the safety of our kids and young adults.”
AB 18, will provide written notice to a person convicted of trafficking Fentanyl detailing that he or she may be convicted of murder, if as a result of selling the drug, another person dies. This measure will provide a legal deterrent to people who peddle this poison and will ultimately hold drug dealers accountable.
AB 19, requires each school to have no less than two doses of Narcan onsite to be available to aid kids suffering from an opioid overdose or poisoning. This measure will ensure that our schools are prepared for the potential of a fentanyl overdose.
Patterson represents the new 5
th
Assembly District, which is comprised of the communities of Roseville, Rocklin, Lincoln, Granite Bay, Auburn, North Auburn, Loomis, Meadow Vista, Newcastle, Penryn,
El Dorado Hills, Cameron Park, Diamond Springs, Placerville, Shingle Springs, Auburn Lake Trails, Georgetown, Cold Springs and Coloma.