SACRAMENTO – Today Assemblyman Josh Hoover (R-Folsom) announced the passage of his proposed audit regarding the recent
return-to-office (RTO) mandate for state workers
. The
requested audit
was unanimously approved by the Joint Legislative Audit Committee on a 13-0 vote and will study the rationale, timing, legality, and costs associated with the decision to rescind telework privileges for state employees. By and large, state agencies have
praised telework policies
and the enhanced productivity they provide.
“The decision to force state employees back to the office is harmful and counterproductive,” Assemblyman Hoover said. “I am grateful for the support of my colleagues on my audit to further study the effectiveness of telework policies that allow the state to remain competitive with the private sector. I urge the Governor to reconsider his RTO mandate, at least until the results of the audit are made available.”
The California Department of General Services currently
manages 59 state office buildings
totaling over 13 million square feet of office space, and
spends over $600 million per year on rent
to maintain more than 2,000 leases for state departments in privately owned buildings. Telework has the potential to reduce this footprint and provide substantial budgetary savings.
Telework policies have also
eliminated nearly 400,000 metric tons of carbon emissions
, reduced traffic congestion, and
saved workers hundreds of dollars per month in vehicle expenses
”We have significant work to do to revitalize downtown Sacramento,” Hoover added. “Adding housing, addressing homelessness, and spurring economic development must all be part of the solution. But it should not be done on the backs of state workers.”
Josh Hoover represents Assembly District 7, which includes the cities of Citrus Heights, Folsom, and Rancho Cordova and the unincorporated communities of Carmichael, Fair Oaks, Foothill Farms, Gold River, Mather, McClellan Park, North Highlands, Orangevale, and Rosemont.
####