Sacramento, CA – State Senator Brian Jones (R-Santee) today sent the following letter to the San Diego County Board of Supervisors in support of Supervisors Jim Desmond and Kristin Gaspar’s plan to begin reopening San Diego County:

May 18, 2020

The Honorable Greg Cox, Chairman County of San Diego 1600 Pacific Highway San Diego, CA 92101

Dear Chairman Cox,

As a longtime San Diego County resident, as a small business owner and as a State Senator representing over one million east and north county San Diegans, I strongly urge the Board’s adoption of the proposal by Supervisors Jim Desmond and Kristin Gaspar to accelerate the reopening of San Diego County.

As you know, our state’s economy has been under a government-mandated shutdown for over eight weeks.  During that time, millions of Californians have become unemployed and tens of thousands of businesses have been shuttered.

Our freedom of assembly, our right to engage in commerce, and our liberty to enjoy the great outdoors have been infringed upon by the Governor.

Californians were told the shutdown would only be temporary, just until we “flattened the curve” of COVID-19 cases so as not to “overwhelm our emergency rooms and health facilities.”  As we all now know, the curve has been flattened and there has been no overwhelming of emergency rooms or health facilities. In fact, the situation has been the opposite at many health facilities, with health care professionals being laid off.

I know I don’t need to relay to you the staggering numbers of San Diegans who have seen their economic well-being turned upside down by this prolonged government-ordered shutdown.

In addition, other problems we are now experiencing from the prolonged shutdown include increased reports about the isolation of seniors, long term mental health effects on children and teenagers, and many Californians putting off important health checkups, exams and procedures.

I urge the San Diego County Board of Supervisors to support Supervisors Desmond and Gaspar’s proactive approach and help our businesses and communities survive. We can re-open now and we can do so safely.

Thank you for your consideration.

Sincerely,

Brian W. Jones Senator, District 38

cc: The Honorable Jim Desmond, Nathan Fletcher, Kristin Gaspar and Dianne Jacob Members, San Diego County Board of Supervisors

Capitol Office

1021 O Street, Room 7640 Sacramento, CA 95814 Phone: (916) 651-4040 Fax: (916) 651-4940

Scripps Ranch Office

10650 Treena Street #110 San Diego, CA 92131 Phone: (858) 547-3818

Escondido Office

720 N. Broadway, Suite 110 Escondido, CA 92025 Phone: (760) 796-4655

facebook Facebook

twitter Twitter

instagram Instagram

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

Home

About Brian Biography

Biography

Legislation My Legislation Committees Bill Search

My Legislation

Committees

Bill Search

Newsroom Releases/Editorials In The News Audio/Video Are You Kidding Me? Photos Media Kit

Releases/Editorials

In The News

Audio/Video

Are You Kidding Me?

Photos

Media Kit

Contact Me Certificate Request District Internship Program District Map E-mail the Senator Legislative Proposal My Offices Subscribe to the Mailing List

Certificate Request

District Internship Program

District Map

E-mail the Senator

Legislative Proposal

My Offices

Subscribe to the Mailing List

Jones Calls on Supervisors to Reopen San Diego County Now

More News

ICYMI

View All

Breadcrumb

Aug 6
California Republicans’ Growing Impact on Social Media
Jul 16
Leader Jones Stands on Steps of the Capitol Opposing the Anti-Charter School Bill
Jul 16
AB 84 Charter Schools Press Conference
Jul 15
Leader Jones Demands Accountability on Dangerous Sexually Violent Predator Program

Jun 17
2025
$8-a-gallon gas? Senate Minority Leader Brian W. Jones requests audit of gas price hikes
Jun 9
2025
Nixed bill could have prevented LA unrest, California minority leader says
Jun 8
2025
California lawmaker warns Menendez brothers' case is driving return of bill to release thousands of killers
Jun 3
2025
Ramona nonprofit, resident recognized with Senate District 40 awards