Sacramento, CA – State Senator Brian Jones (R-Santee) today sent the following letter calling on Governor Gavin Newsom to reopen churches, synagogues, mosques, temples and all houses of worship:

May 12, 2020

The Honorable Gavin Newsom Governor of California State Capitol, First Floor Sacramento, CA 95814

Dear Governor Newsom,

I am requesting that you take immediate steps to allow churches, synagogues, mosques, temples and all places of worship to immediately re-open in California.

The shutdown orders that you and numerous other governors have issued are beginning to be challenged, modified and overturned in state after state.

Liberty Counsel, representing churches and churchgoers throughout the nation, has issued this memo ( copy also attached ) summarizing recent decisions overturning orders shutting down houses of worship:

https://lc.org/PDFs/Memo-ReOpen-Church.pdf

The memo concludes: “The government is not empowered to command under criminal or civil penalties religious worshippers when and how they should worship. Indeed, this sacred right preexisted government and therefore supersedes any dictates such government may issue. These rights are protected by both the Constitutions of the United States of America and every state constitution, and are also protected by federal and state laws.”

I encourage you and your legal advisors to review the memo from Liberty Counsel. I believe you will see the wisdom in lifting your shutdown order.

Churches, like any “essential” service are more than capable of planning for and observing CDC guidelines on social distancing and cleanliness.

As a protected right in the First Amendment to our Bill of Rights, religious facilities should have been deemed “essential” in the first place and not required to close, however they should be among the first encouraged to re-open.

Governor, in such a perilous time that we are facing with the COVID-19 pandemic, encouraging people to pursue their freedom of religious assembly is the correct and compassionate thing to do.

Thank you for your consideration.

Sincerely,

Brian W. Jones Senator, District 38

cc: The Honorable Xavier Becerra, Attorney General The Honorable Toni Atkins, Senate President pro-Tempore The Honorable Shannon Grove, Senate Republican Leader The Honorable Anthony Rendon, Speaker of the Assembly The Honorable Marie Waldron, Assembly Republican Leader

Jones also sent a similar letter to the San Diego County Board of Supervisors asking them to lift all county shutdown or restriction orders on houses of worship.

Capitol Office

1021 O Street, Room 7640 Sacramento, CA 95814 Phone: (916) 651-4040 Fax: (916) 651-4940

Scripps Ranch Office

10650 Treena Street #110 San Diego, CA 92131 Phone: (858) 547-3818

Escondido Office

720 N. Broadway, Suite 110 Escondido, CA 92025 Phone: (760) 796-4655

facebook Facebook

twitter Twitter

instagram Instagram

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

Home

About Brian Biography

Biography

Legislation My Legislation Committees Bill Search

My Legislation

Committees

Bill Search

Newsroom Releases/Editorials In The News Audio/Video Are You Kidding Me? Photos Media Kit

Releases/Editorials

In The News

Audio/Video

Are You Kidding Me?

Photos

Media Kit

Contact Me Certificate Request District Internship Program District Map E-mail the Senator Legislative Proposal My Offices Subscribe to the Mailing List

Certificate Request

District Internship Program

District Map

E-mail the Senator

Legislative Proposal

My Offices

Subscribe to the Mailing List

Jones Calls on Governor to Reopen Churches, Synagogues, Mosques & Temples

More News

ICYMI

View All

Breadcrumb

Aug 6
California Republicans’ Growing Impact on Social Media
Jul 16
Leader Jones Stands on Steps of the Capitol Opposing the Anti-Charter School Bill
Jul 16
AB 84 Charter Schools Press Conference
Jul 15
Leader Jones Demands Accountability on Dangerous Sexually Violent Predator Program

Jun 17
2025
$8-a-gallon gas? Senate Minority Leader Brian W. Jones requests audit of gas price hikes
Jun 9
2025
Nixed bill could have prevented LA unrest, California minority leader says
Jun 8
2025
California lawmaker warns Menendez brothers' case is driving return of bill to release thousands of killers
Jun 3
2025
Ramona nonprofit, resident recognized with Senate District 40 awards