Bipartisan legislation by State Senator Brian W. Jones (R-Santee), Senator Ben Hueso (D-San Diego), and Assemblyman Jim Cooper (D-Elk Grove), aimed at preventing the state from continuing to try to secretly dump Sexually Violent Predators (SVPs) in unsuspecting communities, was stalled today in the Senate Public Safety Committee.

Jones’s Senate Bill 814, the “Sexually Violent Predator Accountability, Fairness, and Enforcement Act” (SAFE Act), was in response to the California Department of State Hospitals (DSH) and its contractor repeatedly trying to dump SVPs in East and North San Diego County, as well as other unsuspecting communities throughout the state.

“The communities of Mt. Helix, Ranchita, Borrego Springs, and Rancho Bernardo were recently jolted by the state’s foolish efforts to put an SVP in their communities,” said Senator Brian Jones.  “The attempted placements of monsters Douglas Badger and Merle Wakefield constitute a troubling pattern of the Department of State Hospitals playing ‘Hide the Predator.’  Fortunately, judges in both cases intervened and prevented the forced and dangerous placements of SVPs into family neighborhoods.  These SVP placement games by the state’s placement contractor – Liberty Healthcare – is not unique to the San Diego region and will probably be repeated again.  Our SAFE Act would require transparency in the SVP placement process, force state officials to own up to these decisions, and make public safety the highest priority.”

Specifically, Jones’ Senate Bill 841 would:

Mandate that the Director of the Department of State Hospitals publicly report annually how many SVPs are in each county, and in which supervisorial district;

Make the highest criteria of any potential placement of an SVP be that of public safety;

Require the Department of State Hospitals to take ownership in the process by approving any placements BEFORE the vendor can sign any leases for placement locations; and

Require the Department of State Hospitals, the Department of Corrections and Rehabilitation Department, and the Department of Forestry and Fire Protection (CAL FIRE) to report to the Governor and Legislature any inventory of state facilities that could house SVPs.

The 1-3 vote that stalled SB 841 fell along party lines with Senator Rosilicie Ochoa Bogh (R-Yucaipa) voting in favor of the measure while Senators Sydney Kamlager (D-Los Angeles), Nancy Skinner (D-Berkeley) and Scott Weiner (D-San Francisco) voted no.  Senator Steven Bradford (D-Gardena) was absent from the hearing.

SB 841 was granted “reconsideration” so it can be brought up again for second vote before April 29 th .

Capitol Office

1021 O Street, Room 7640 Sacramento, CA 95814 Phone: (916) 651-4040 Fax: (916) 651-4940

Scripps Ranch Office

10650 Treena Street #110 San Diego, CA 92131 Phone: (858) 547-3818

Escondido Office

720 N. Broadway, Suite 110 Escondido, CA 92025 Phone: (760) 796-4655

facebook Facebook

twitter Twitter

instagram Instagram

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

Home

About Brian Biography

Biography

Legislation My Legislation Committees Bill Search

My Legislation

Committees

Bill Search

Newsroom Releases/Editorials In The News Audio/Video Are You Kidding Me? Photos Media Kit

Releases/Editorials

In The News

Audio/Video

Are You Kidding Me?

Photos

Media Kit

Contact Me Certificate Request District Internship Program District Map E-mail the Senator Legislative Proposal My Offices Subscribe to the Mailing List

Certificate Request

District Internship Program

District Map

E-mail the Senator

Legislative Proposal

My Offices

Subscribe to the Mailing List

Jones measure to prevent Sexually Violent Predators from being dumped in unsuspecting communities stalled in Senate

More News

ICYMI

View All

Breadcrumb

Aug 6
California Republicans’ Growing Impact on Social Media
Jul 16
Leader Jones Stands on Steps of the Capitol Opposing the Anti-Charter School Bill
Jul 16
AB 84 Charter Schools Press Conference
Jul 15
Leader Jones Demands Accountability on Dangerous Sexually Violent Predator Program

Jun 17
2025
$8-a-gallon gas? Senate Minority Leader Brian W. Jones requests audit of gas price hikes
Jun 9
2025
Nixed bill could have prevented LA unrest, California minority leader says
Jun 8
2025
California lawmaker warns Menendez brothers' case is driving return of bill to release thousands of killers
Jun 3
2025
Ramona nonprofit, resident recognized with Senate District 40 awards