Legislation by Senator Brian W. Jones (R-Santee) to save off-highway vehicle (OHV) competitions in California was unanimously approved by the State Senate.

“The Senate recognized that this important measure is not just for the OHV community, but also for environmental programs and local economies throughout California,” stated Senator Brian W. Jones.  “Many people have worked tirelessly over the last three years on this bipartisan compromise.  I am hopeful that the Assembly will join the Senate in approving SB 894.”

Senate Bill 894 would create a new registration program for off-highway vehicle competition vehicles that is narrowly tailored for legitimate competitors only.

Competition OHVs have long been regulated through the Red Sticker program under the California Air Resources Board (CARB). This program has allowed competition OHVs to operate in the state for the past two decades.  However, the Red Sticker program ended last year with no program planned to replace it.

Without a new program, OHV competitions and practice riding on public lands have been thrown into confusion with reports of some competitors still getting Red Stickers and permission to compete while others have not.  This uncertainty negatively impacts local businesses, jobs, and the economy of many rural and suburban regions that have long hosted competitions.  Additionally, funding for environmental work and law enforcement has also been lost.

Senators Bob Archuleta (D-Pico Rivera), Ben Hueso (D-San Diego), Melissa Hurtado (D-Sanger), Susan Rubio (D-Baldwin Park), and Scott Wilk (R-Santa Clarita) and Assemblymember Adam Gray (D-Merced) are all coauthors of SB 894.  It is cosponsored by the Coalition for Public Access and the California Motorcycle Dealers Association and now goes to the Assembly for consideration.

Capitol Office

1021 O Street, Room 7640 Sacramento, CA 95814 Phone: (916) 651-4040 Fax: (916) 651-4940

Scripps Ranch Office

10650 Treena Street #110 San Diego, CA 92131 Phone: (858) 547-3818

Escondido Office

720 N. Broadway, Suite 110 Escondido, CA 92025 Phone: (760) 796-4655

facebook Facebook

twitter Twitter

instagram Instagram

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

Home

About Brian Biography

Biography

Legislation My Legislation Committees Bill Search

My Legislation

Committees

Bill Search

Newsroom Releases/Editorials In The News Audio/Video Are You Kidding Me? Photos Media Kit

Releases/Editorials

In The News

Audio/Video

Are You Kidding Me?

Photos

Media Kit

Contact Me Certificate Request District Internship Program District Map E-mail the Senator Legislative Proposal My Offices Subscribe to the Mailing List

Certificate Request

District Internship Program

District Map

E-mail the Senator

Legislative Proposal

My Offices

Subscribe to the Mailing List

Jones’s measure to save off-highway vehicle competitions unanimously approved by the Senate

More News

ICYMI

View All

Breadcrumb

Aug 6
California Republicans’ Growing Impact on Social Media
Jul 16
Leader Jones Stands on Steps of the Capitol Opposing the Anti-Charter School Bill
Jul 16
AB 84 Charter Schools Press Conference
Jul 15
Leader Jones Demands Accountability on Dangerous Sexually Violent Predator Program

Jun 17
2025
$8-a-gallon gas? Senate Minority Leader Brian W. Jones requests audit of gas price hikes
Jun 9
2025
Nixed bill could have prevented LA unrest, California minority leader says
Jun 8
2025
California lawmaker warns Menendez brothers' case is driving return of bill to release thousands of killers
Jun 3
2025
Ramona nonprofit, resident recognized with Senate District 40 awards