Legislation by Senator Brian W. Jones (R-Santee) to assist law enforcement agencies with addressing the homeless problem was approved today on a bipartisan vote by the Senate Public Safety Committee.

“This measure is a good first step in helping solve homelessness in California,” stated Senator Brian W. Jones. “We need to clear homeless encampments off our streets, out of our parks, and off other public property in a humane and compassionate way. This is a comprehensive team approach to provide on-the-spot assessments of the needs of homeless individuals along with immediate placements in necessary health programs and appropriate housing facilities.”

Jones’s Senate Bill 1006 will provide local law enforcement agencies with grants to send homeless assessment teams, also known as “wrap-around” teams, into the field. Specifically, it:

Establishes a competitive grant program in the California Department of Justice in which local law enforcement agencies could apply for funding for local homeless assessment (wrap-around) team efforts;

Authorizes these local teams to be composed of a law enforcement officer, a mental health professional, a medical services professional, and a representative of the county welfare department; and

Allows the mental health and medical services team members to be volunteers associated with a nonprofit or be graduate students in the appropriate field of study.

This “wrap-around” idea is based on discussions with law enforcement officers, mental health professionals, local government officials, representatives of nonprofits, and medical personnel. This unique approach has the potential to help law enforcement compassionately clear the homeless encampments out of our communities, assess the particular medical needs of those living on the street, and link them with appropriate health and housing agencies so they don’t wind up right back where they were.

SB 1006 is similar to Jones’s Senate Bill 1203 of 2020, which was part of his comprehensive six-bill package dealing with homelessness issues .

SB 1006 passed on a 3-0 vote, with Senators Steven Bradford (D-Gardena), Rosilicie Ochoa Bogh (R-Yucaipa), and Scott Wiener (D-San Francisco) voting YES, while Senators Sydney Kamlager (D-Los Angeles) and Nancy Skinner (D- Berkeley) abstained.

Capitol Office

1021 O Street, Room 7640 Sacramento, CA 95814 Phone: (916) 651-4040 Fax: (916) 651-4940

Scripps Ranch Office

10650 Treena Street #110 San Diego, CA 92131 Phone: (858) 547-3818

Escondido Office

720 N. Broadway, Suite 110 Escondido, CA 92025 Phone: (760) 796-4655

facebook Facebook

twitter Twitter

instagram Instagram

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

Home

About Brian Biography

Biography

Legislation My Legislation Committees Bill Search

My Legislation

Committees

Bill Search

Newsroom Releases/Editorials In The News Audio/Video Are You Kidding Me? Photos Media Kit

Releases/Editorials

In The News

Audio/Video

Are You Kidding Me?

Photos

Media Kit

Contact Me Certificate Request District Internship Program District Map E-mail the Senator Legislative Proposal My Offices Subscribe to the Mailing List

Certificate Request

District Internship Program

District Map

E-mail the Senator

Legislative Proposal

My Offices

Subscribe to the Mailing List

Jones’s measure to assist local law enforcement agencies that send homeless assessment teams into the field passes key committee

More News

ICYMI

View All

Breadcrumb

Aug 6
California Republicans’ Growing Impact on Social Media
Jul 16
Leader Jones Stands on Steps of the Capitol Opposing the Anti-Charter School Bill
Jul 16
AB 84 Charter Schools Press Conference
Jul 15
Leader Jones Demands Accountability on Dangerous Sexually Violent Predator Program

Jun 17
2025
$8-a-gallon gas? Senate Minority Leader Brian W. Jones requests audit of gas price hikes
Jun 9
2025
Nixed bill could have prevented LA unrest, California minority leader says
Jun 8
2025
California lawmaker warns Menendez brothers' case is driving return of bill to release thousands of killers
Jun 3
2025
Ramona nonprofit, resident recognized with Senate District 40 awards