El Cajon, CA – State Senator Brian Jones (R-Santee) today publicly released an official opinion by the Office of Legislative Counsel that declares it unconstitutional to allow legislators to cast votes by “proxy” or by “remotely calling in” their vote from anywhere in the world.

“The Office of Legislative Counsel, the attorney for both the Senate and Assembly, has produced multiple written opinions over the years making it crystal clear that in order to vote on legislation, Senators and Assemblymembers must be physically present at committee hearings or on the Senate or Assembly Floor.

“Legislative Counsel has recently confirmed that long held position – remote voting by legislators is not permitted under the California Constitution – in a written opinion I received in May of this year.

“On March 16 of this year, our Senate leaders quickly jammed through a hastily written Senate Resolution (SR) 86 on a voice vote.  Since then, my office staff has had in-depth discussions with Legislative Counsel and it’s become increasingly clear that the Senate leadership apparently did not do their due diligence prior to forcing a vote on SR 86.

“Today, Assembly leaders are foolishly considering jamming through House Resolution 100 which would let the Speaker and Minority Leader get ‘proxies’ from absent colleagues and then vote them in blocs.

“Just what California doesn’t need, more secret deal-making with Tammany Hall style rigged voting by political Party leaders.

“If legislative leaders want to change the Constitution, they need the approval of someone very important: the voters.

“And if legislative leaders want to ask to vote by proxy, by calling-in and never showing up at the Capitol, then legislators ought to be prepared for voters adding one important stipulation – move the Legislature back to part-time status.  Casting votes from the beach, from a ballgame or while vacationing out of state may seem ‘trendy,’ but it is hardly serious representative government.

“I greatly respect the courage of legislators such as Assemblywoman Autumn Burke (D-Inglewood) and Assemblyman Tom Lackey (R-Palmdale) who were diagnosed with COVID-19 but after quarantine and hospitalization, respectively, both came back to the Capitol to represent their districts.  I also have great admiration my colleagues such as Senator Pat Bates (R-Laguna Niguel) who has remotely participated, but declined to remotely vote, in Senate hearings out of respect for our Constitution and the will of the voters.

“I also take no issue with colleagues who have chosen for health or family reasons not to return to the Capitol out of concern for perhaps unknowingly catching COVID-19 and taking it back to their homes and communities.

“But if legislators want to vote in Senate or Assembly Committees, or on the Senate or Assembly Floor, they must be present to do so.  Our Constitution requires it and our voters demand it.”

Jones’ statement regarding the written opinions on remote voting relate from:

The May 11, 2020 written opinion from Legislative Counsel which among other things states: “… to the extent that virtual legislative sessions necessarily permit Members to be located in different physical places to which members of the public lack access, legislating remotely arguably violates the constitutional guarantee of open and public meetings.” “… the California Constitution does not contemplate that members of the Legislature may participate or vote in legislative proceedings, including floor sessions and committee hearings, by means of remote access.”

A 2008 written opinion issued to then-State Senator Jeff Denham from Legislative Counsel that in part stated:  “a Member of the Legislature serving on a committee may not lawfully cast his or her vote by telephone, rather than by being physically present at a hearing.”  Click here to read about that opinion.

Capitol Office

1021 O Street, Room 7640 Sacramento, CA 95814 Phone: (916) 651-4040 Fax: (916) 651-4940

Scripps Ranch Office

10650 Treena Street #110 San Diego, CA 92131 Phone: (858) 547-3818

Escondido Office

720 N. Broadway, Suite 110 Escondido, CA 92025 Phone: (760) 796-4655

facebook Facebook

twitter Twitter

instagram Instagram

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

Home

About Brian Biography

Biography

Legislation My Legislation Committees Bill Search

My Legislation

Committees

Bill Search

Newsroom Releases/Editorials In The News Audio/Video Are You Kidding Me? Photos Media Kit

Releases/Editorials

In The News

Audio/Video

Are You Kidding Me?

Photos

Media Kit

Contact Me Certificate Request District Internship Program District Map E-mail the Senator Legislative Proposal My Offices Subscribe to the Mailing List

Certificate Request

District Internship Program

District Map

E-mail the Senator

Legislative Proposal

My Offices

Subscribe to the Mailing List

Jones: "Remote Voting" and "Proxy Voting" Declared Unconstitutional by Legislative Counsel

More News

ICYMI

View All

Breadcrumb

Aug 6
California Republicans’ Growing Impact on Social Media
Jul 16
Leader Jones Stands on Steps of the Capitol Opposing the Anti-Charter School Bill
Jul 16
AB 84 Charter Schools Press Conference
Jul 15
Leader Jones Demands Accountability on Dangerous Sexually Violent Predator Program

Jun 17
2025
$8-a-gallon gas? Senate Minority Leader Brian W. Jones requests audit of gas price hikes
Jun 9
2025
Nixed bill could have prevented LA unrest, California minority leader says
Jun 8
2025
California lawmaker warns Menendez brothers' case is driving return of bill to release thousands of killers
Jun 3
2025
Ramona nonprofit, resident recognized with Senate District 40 awards