State Senator Brian W. Jones (R-Santee) today called on Governor Gavin Newsom to order the Department of State Hospitals (DSH) to stop trying to release sexually violent predators (SVPs) in unsuspecting residential neighborhoods throughout California.  Jones was specifically reacting to recent attempts by DSH to place two SVPs in East San Diego County.

“For decades state agencies have been sneaking around trying to release or parole dangerous sexually violent predators and rapists in residential neighborhoods,” stated Senator Brian W. Jones.  “Back in 1980’s Governor Deukmejian stepped in to stop it.  In the 90’s Governor Wilson had to do the same.  It’s time now for Governor Newsom to step up as well and call a halt to this dangerous practice.”

In the last several weeks, the DSH plan to place Douglas Badger and Merle Wakefield, both dangerous SVPs, into a home in Mt. Helix was exposed and community protests ensued.  This week, San Diego County Superior Court Judge Albert Harutunian disallowed Wakefield’s placement in the home but Badger’s approval to live in the same location on Mt. Helix is still pending.

In 1994, state officials tried to parole convicted serial rapist Melvin Carter into several Bay Area communities.  Wilson overruled his own staff and ordered that Carter be sent to spend his parole in a trailer at the Devil’s Garden Fire Conservation Camp in Modoc County.

In 1987, the state tried to parole sadistic torturer-rapist Lawrence Singleton to several Bay Area communities.  Deukmejian ordered that Singleton instead serve out his parole in a trailer on the grounds of San Quentin Prison.

“The state should be protecting children and other vulnerable people in residential neighborhoods, not putting them at risk,” continued Jones.  “Governor Newsom and his department directors need to stop playing ‘hide the predator’ and come up with a safer, transparent plan for dealing with sexually violent predators and other sexual offenders.  We now know about the state’s attempts to release Badger and Wakefield, but where else in California is the Newsom Administration trying to do this?”

Capitol Office

1021 O Street, Room 7640 Sacramento, CA 95814 Phone: (916) 651-4040 Fax: (916) 651-4940

Scripps Ranch Office

10650 Treena Street #110 San Diego, CA 92131 Phone: (858) 547-3818

Escondido Office

720 N. Broadway, Suite 110 Escondido, CA 92025 Phone: (760) 796-4655

facebook Facebook

twitter Twitter

instagram Instagram

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

Home

About Brian Biography

Biography

Legislation My Legislation Committees Bill Search

My Legislation

Committees

Bill Search

Newsroom Releases/Editorials In The News Audio/Video Are You Kidding Me? Photos Media Kit

Releases/Editorials

In The News

Audio/Video

Are You Kidding Me?

Photos

Media Kit

Contact Me Certificate Request District Internship Program District Map E-mail the Senator Legislative Proposal My Offices Subscribe to the Mailing List

Certificate Request

District Internship Program

District Map

E-mail the Senator

Legislative Proposal

My Offices

Subscribe to the Mailing List

Jones to Newsom: Stop Playing Hide the Predator

More News

ICYMI

View All

Breadcrumb

Aug 6
California Republicans’ Growing Impact on Social Media
Jul 16
Leader Jones Stands on Steps of the Capitol Opposing the Anti-Charter School Bill
Jul 16
AB 84 Charter Schools Press Conference
Jul 15
Leader Jones Demands Accountability on Dangerous Sexually Violent Predator Program

Jun 17
2025
$8-a-gallon gas? Senate Minority Leader Brian W. Jones requests audit of gas price hikes
Jun 9
2025
Nixed bill could have prevented LA unrest, California minority leader says
Jun 8
2025
California lawmaker warns Menendez brothers' case is driving return of bill to release thousands of killers
Jun 3
2025
Ramona nonprofit, resident recognized with Senate District 40 awards