SACRAMENTO – Legislation by Senator Brian W. Jones (R-Santee) to establish a free Sudden Cardiac Arrest (SCA) screening program for kids in grades five through 12 was approved on a bipartisan vote by the Senate Education Committee.

Specifically, Jones’s Senate Bill 1135 would require the State Department of Education (SDE) to establish a California Youth Cardiac Screening Pilot Program for the next three school years and allow any California school (public or private) to volunteer to be part of the program. The SDE would contract with a nonprofit organization to run the SCA screening pilot program and provide data at the end of the three years for evaluation by the state.

“Sudden cardiac arrest is the leading cause of death of student athletes with an estimated 23,000 children under 18 lost each year in the US,” stated Senator Brian W. Jones. “SB 1135 establishes a pilot program to screen children for SCA conveniently in their school setting. These screenings will deliver a potentially life-saving service and give access to critical care before tragedy strikes.”

During a SCA, heart function ceases – abruptly and without warning. When this occurs, the heart is no longer able to pump blood to the rest of the body. Without immediate bystander intervention such as CPR (Cardiopulmonary resuscitation) and use of an AED (Automated external defibrillator), the survival rate is as low as 10 percent.  The most common cause of SCA is a disturbance in the heart rhythm called ventricular fibrillation (irregular heartbeat), which can be detected ahead of time through use of an ECG (electrocardiogram) during a screening.

SB 1135 is sponsored by the Eric Paredes Save A Life Foundation, named in the memory of Eric Paredes, a healthy Steele Canyon High School sophomore athlete who died suddenly and unexpectedly from SCA in 2009. His parents, Hector Paredes and Rhina Paredes-Greeson, established the foundation to honor him through their commitment to prevent this tragedy from happening to other families. In San Diego, Eric’s legacy has compelled the foundation to provide thousands of free heart screenings, place hundreds of AEDs in youth communities, and advance awareness about SCA.

“The underpinning of this initiative is the fact that about half of youth stricken by sudden cardiac arrest had no warning signs or family risk factors that would’ve triggered diagnostic follow-up to identify their heart condition before tragedy struck,” said Rhina Paredes-Greeson and Hector Paredes.  “The pilot is meant to provide a life-saving service to California youth while collecting the data necessary to continue to evolve the standard of care.”

Supporters of SB 1135 include the Association of California Healthcare Districts; Avive Solutions, Inc.; Grossmont Healthcare District; Heartfelt Help Foundation; Heartshield Project; Just1mike; Justin Carr Wants World Peace Foundation; Kyle J. Taylor Foundation; Madison Middle School; Scripps Health; Sidelined USA; Southwest Sports Wellness Foundation; Sudden Arrhythmia Death Syndromes Foundation; Sudden Cardiac Arrest Foundation; and Via Heart Project.

You can learn more about SCA by clicking here .

View Senator Jones’s recent social media on SB 1135 and the importance of screenings on Instagram and Twitter .

Senator Pat Bates (R-Laguna Niguel) is the Principal Coauthor of SB 1135. This measure will now go to the Senate Appropriations Committee for hearing.

Capitol Office

1021 O Street, Room 7640 Sacramento, CA 95814 Phone: (916) 651-4040 Fax: (916) 651-4940

Scripps Ranch Office

10650 Treena Street #110 San Diego, CA 92131 Phone: (858) 547-3818

Escondido Office

720 N. Broadway, Suite 110 Escondido, CA 92025 Phone: (760) 796-4655

facebook Facebook

twitter Twitter

instagram Instagram

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

Home

About Brian Biography

Biography

Legislation My Legislation Committees Bill Search

My Legislation

Committees

Bill Search

Newsroom Releases/Editorials In The News Audio/Video Are You Kidding Me? Photos Media Kit

Releases/Editorials

In The News

Audio/Video

Are You Kidding Me?

Photos

Media Kit

Contact Me Certificate Request District Internship Program District Map E-mail the Senator Legislative Proposal My Offices Subscribe to the Mailing List

Certificate Request

District Internship Program

District Map

E-mail the Senator

Legislative Proposal

My Offices

Subscribe to the Mailing List

Jones’s measure establishing a pilot program to screen kids for Sudden Cardiac Arrest approved by the Senate Education Committee

More News

ICYMI

View All

Breadcrumb

Aug 6
California Republicans’ Growing Impact on Social Media
Jul 16
Leader Jones Stands on Steps of the Capitol Opposing the Anti-Charter School Bill
Jul 16
AB 84 Charter Schools Press Conference
Jul 15
Leader Jones Demands Accountability on Dangerous Sexually Violent Predator Program

Jun 17
2025
$8-a-gallon gas? Senate Minority Leader Brian W. Jones requests audit of gas price hikes
Jun 9
2025
Nixed bill could have prevented LA unrest, California minority leader says
Jun 8
2025
California lawmaker warns Menendez brothers' case is driving return of bill to release thousands of killers
Jun 3
2025
Ramona nonprofit, resident recognized with Senate District 40 awards