Sacramento – In the Senate Budget Subcommittee on Resources, Environmental Protection, Energy and Transportation hearing yesterday, Senator Brian Jones (R-Santee) supported several funding items that would benefit many communities in San Diego County and throughout the state.

Off-Highway Vehicle (OHV) Trust Fund - The Governor's budget proposes using $35 million in 2019-20 and 2020-21 from the OHV Trust Fund for local assistance program compliance. The intent of local assistance grants is to make funds available to aid local agencies to acquire, develop, construct, maintain, administer, and conserve the state's trails and areas for the use of off-highway motor vehicles. With Jones’ vote, the subcommittee approved keeping this funding in the proposed budget as it moves forward.

Prop. 68 - Also known as the  California  Drought,  Water,  Parks,  Climate,  Coastal  Protection, and  Outdoor  Access  Bond, was approved by the voters on June 5, 2018 and provides $4.1 billion for a variety of needs in the areas of natural resources and environmental protection. Jones and others on the subcommittee expressed concerns to the representatives from the Department of Parks & Recreation as well as the Department of Finance that more should be done to ensure that disadvantaged youth could gain access to parks, trails, and forest areas and that funds for access may not be getting distributed as intended. Both departments committed to continue working with the Senators to explore ways to increase access.

State Emergency Vehicle Fleet – $3.5 million in funds were proposed by the Governor for much needed equipment and facilities at numerous state parks, including for a search & rescue plane covering Anza-Borrego Desert State Park and Ocotillo Wells State Vehicular Recreation Area (SVRA) as well as emergency trucks and boats for other state parks along the coast. The members of the subcommittee supported this funding request.

State Park Capital Outlay Projects – The Governor proposed to spend $19 million on a variety of state park needs statewide including $2.5 million for improvements to the Ocotillo Wells SVRA auto and truck shop and upgrades for the nearby Holmes Camp Water system.  This funding proposal is being held open for future discussions and eventual placement in the upcoming budget.

Jones commented after the hearing, “I am pleased that these important items moved along in bipartisan manner. I am grateful for the Governor’s input in some of these, and I look forward to discussing them when they make it to the full budget committee.”

Capitol Office

1021 O Street, Room 7640 Sacramento, CA 95814 Phone: (916) 651-4040 Fax: (916) 651-4940

Scripps Ranch Office

10650 Treena Street #110 San Diego, CA 92131 Phone: (858) 547-3818

Escondido Office

720 N. Broadway, Suite 110 Escondido, CA 92025 Phone: (760) 796-4655

facebook Facebook

twitter Twitter

instagram Instagram

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

Home

About Brian Biography

Biography

Legislation My Legislation Committees Bill Search

My Legislation

Committees

Bill Search

Newsroom Releases/Editorials In The News Audio/Video Are You Kidding Me? Photos Media Kit

Releases/Editorials

In The News

Audio/Video

Are You Kidding Me?

Photos

Media Kit

Contact Me Certificate Request District Internship Program District Map E-mail the Senator Legislative Proposal My Offices Subscribe to the Mailing List

Certificate Request

District Internship Program

District Map

E-mail the Senator

Legislative Proposal

My Offices

Subscribe to the Mailing List

Jones Supports Key OHV and State Parks Budget Items

More News

ICYMI

View All

Breadcrumb

Aug 6
California Republicans’ Growing Impact on Social Media
Jul 16
Leader Jones Stands on Steps of the Capitol Opposing the Anti-Charter School Bill
Jul 16
AB 84 Charter Schools Press Conference
Jul 15
Leader Jones Demands Accountability on Dangerous Sexually Violent Predator Program

Jun 17
2025
$8-a-gallon gas? Senate Minority Leader Brian W. Jones requests audit of gas price hikes
Jun 9
2025
Nixed bill could have prevented LA unrest, California minority leader says
Jun 8
2025
California lawmaker warns Menendez brothers' case is driving return of bill to release thousands of killers
Jun 3
2025
Ramona nonprofit, resident recognized with Senate District 40 awards