El Cajon, CA – State Senator Brian Jones (R-Santee) today announced that he has promoted Senate Fellow Nina Krishel to the position of Legislative and Communications Aide in his Capitol Office.

“Nina worked hard for my constituents in East and North San Diego County during this very challenging last year,” said Senator Jones.  “Many new Capitol procedures such as requiring staff to work-from-home and accelerated deadlines created unusual barriers to our legislative efforts and somewhat shortchanged Senate Fellows on the ‘normal’ Capitol experience.  However, by all accounts Nina adapted well and performed effectively on a wide variety of assignments including staffing legislation, researching issues, helping handle constituent casework and assisting on our communications and social media programs.”

As a Legislative and Communications Aide, Nina Krishel will still be working on legislation but will now also be primarily responsible for directing and coordinating the office’s social media programs.

“As a Senate Fellow this past year, I had the chance to serve Senate District 38 during these challenging times. Senator Jones is committed to making this state a better place for his constituents. I am grateful for the opportunity to continue working for the Senator as his Legislative and Communications Aide.  Thank you to Senator Jones and his team for welcoming me in my new role,” said Nina Krishel.

Nina came to the Senate Fellows Program and Jones’ Office after graduating from California Polytechnic State University, San Luis Obispo with a Bachelor’s degree in English.

The Senate Fellows Program annually selects 18 individuals to serve as paid staff for 11 months and each are assigned to work in a Senator’s Office or a Senate Committee Office.  Many graduates of this prestigious program stay on to work in the California Legislature while others may decide to pursue more education or move on to a different career.

Capitol Office

1021 O Street, Room 7640 Sacramento, CA 95814 Phone: (916) 651-4040 Fax: (916) 651-4940

Scripps Ranch Office

10650 Treena Street #110 San Diego, CA 92131 Phone: (858) 547-3818

Escondido Office

720 N. Broadway, Suite 110 Escondido, CA 92025 Phone: (760) 796-4655

facebook Facebook

twitter Twitter

instagram Instagram

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

Nina Krishel

Home

About Brian Biography

Biography

Legislation My Legislation Committees Bill Search

My Legislation

Committees

Bill Search

Newsroom Releases/Editorials In The News Audio/Video Are You Kidding Me? Photos Media Kit

Releases/Editorials

In The News

Audio/Video

Are You Kidding Me?

Photos

Media Kit

Contact Me Certificate Request District Internship Program District Map E-mail the Senator Legislative Proposal My Offices Subscribe to the Mailing List

Certificate Request

District Internship Program

District Map

E-mail the Senator

Legislative Proposal

My Offices

Subscribe to the Mailing List

Jones Promotes Senate Fellow to Legislative and Communications Aide

More News

ICYMI

View All

Breadcrumb

Aug 6
California Republicans’ Growing Impact on Social Media
Jul 16
Leader Jones Stands on Steps of the Capitol Opposing the Anti-Charter School Bill
Jul 16
AB 84 Charter Schools Press Conference
Jul 15
Leader Jones Demands Accountability on Dangerous Sexually Violent Predator Program

Jun 17
2025
$8-a-gallon gas? Senate Minority Leader Brian W. Jones requests audit of gas price hikes
Jun 9
2025
Nixed bill could have prevented LA unrest, California minority leader says
Jun 8
2025
California lawmaker warns Menendez brothers' case is driving return of bill to release thousands of killers
Jun 3
2025
Ramona nonprofit, resident recognized with Senate District 40 awards