Like all other law-abiding residents of East County, State Senator Brian W. Jones (R-Santee) today rejoiced that a second San Diego County Superior Court Judge has prohibited the state from placing sexually violent predator (SVP) Douglas Badger in a residential neighborhood in Mt. Helix.  Ten days ago, another judge ruled that another sexually violent predator, Merle Wakefield, also would not be allowed to be placed in that same house in Mt. Helix.

“The families of Mt. Helix can breathe a sigh of relief today,” said Senator Brian Jones.  “For now, Badger and Wakefield will not be forced into a residential neighborhood but the concern is where will the Newsom Administration try this next?  This game of ‘Hide the Predator” needs to stop.  It’s unfair and upsetting to unsuspecting communities.”

Jones recently announced that in addition to supporting efforts by San Diego County District Attorney Summer Stephan and Supervisor Joel Anderson to get the county involved earlier in potential SVP placements, he is also drafting state legislation to stop the state’s “Hide the Predator” game and it’s pattern of dumping SVPs in the same regions over and over again.

Specifically, Jones’ bill would:

Place a hard limit on the placement of SVP’s within a county to no more 40% in any one supervisorial district;

Mandate that the Director of the Department of State Hospitals publicly report annually how many SVPs are in each county, and in which supervisorial district;

Make the highest criteria of any potential placement of an SVP be that of public safety;

Put the burden squarely on the Director of State Hospitals to ensure that these new policies are followed; and

Require the Department of State Hospitals, the Corrections and Rehabilitation Department, and CAL-FIRE to inventory which of their facilities have trailers that can house SVPs.

“For decades state has been sneaking around trying to release or parole dangerous sexually violent predators and rapists in residential neighborhoods,” continued Jones.  “Administration officials have often tried to deflect their responsibility by allowing their vendors, such as Liberty Health Care, too much freedom in targeting regions such as East County.  Our legislation will require transparency in the SVP placement process, force state officials own up for their decisions and make public safety the highest priority.”

Capitol Office

1021 O Street, Room 7640 Sacramento, CA 95814 Phone: (916) 651-4040 Fax: (916) 651-4940

Scripps Ranch Office

10650 Treena Street #110 San Diego, CA 92131 Phone: (858) 547-3818

Escondido Office

720 N. Broadway, Suite 110 Escondido, CA 92025 Phone: (760) 796-4655

facebook Facebook

twitter Twitter

instagram Instagram

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

Home

About Brian Biography

Biography

Legislation My Legislation Committees Bill Search

My Legislation

Committees

Bill Search

Newsroom Releases/Editorials In The News Audio/Video Are You Kidding Me? Photos Media Kit

Releases/Editorials

In The News

Audio/Video

Are You Kidding Me?

Photos

Media Kit

Contact Me Certificate Request District Internship Program District Map E-mail the Senator Legislative Proposal My Offices Subscribe to the Mailing List

Certificate Request

District Internship Program

District Map

E-mail the Senator

Legislative Proposal

My Offices

Subscribe to the Mailing List

Judges temporarily block state from putting sexually violent predators in Mt. Helix

More News

ICYMI

View All

Breadcrumb

Aug 6
California Republicans’ Growing Impact on Social Media
Jul 16
Leader Jones Stands on Steps of the Capitol Opposing the Anti-Charter School Bill
Jul 16
AB 84 Charter Schools Press Conference
Jul 15
Leader Jones Demands Accountability on Dangerous Sexually Violent Predator Program

Jun 17
2025
$8-a-gallon gas? Senate Minority Leader Brian W. Jones requests audit of gas price hikes
Jun 9
2025
Nixed bill could have prevented LA unrest, California minority leader says
Jun 8
2025
California lawmaker warns Menendez brothers' case is driving return of bill to release thousands of killers
Jun 3
2025
Ramona nonprofit, resident recognized with Senate District 40 awards