Kiley, Gallagher join freelancers & EDD fraud victims opposed to Su’s Labor Secretary nomination.
SACRAMENTO – Rep. Kevin Kiley (R-Rocklin) and Assembly Republican Leader James Gallagher (Yuba City) joined fellow lawmakers, freelance workers and victims of mismanagement at the California Employment Development Department to call on the U.S. Senate to reject Julie Su’s confirmation as U.S. Secretary of Labor.
Speakers at the event highlighted Su’s record of failure as California’s Labor Secretary, where she:
Presided over the largest unemployment insurance fraud in U.S. history;
Allowed the California Employment Development Department to wrongfully deny more than 1 million unemployment claims; and
Backed AB 5, which threatened the livelihoods of 2.7 million freelance workers.
“As Chair of the House Subcommittee on Workforce Protections, I am urging President Biden in the strongest terms to immediately withdraw Julie Su’s nomination. To say that Su failed in her previous role as Labor Secretary in California’s Labor Department is an extreme understatement. The amount of suffering Su’s Labor Department inflicted on my constituents and millions of Californians should entirely disqualify Su from consideration.” –
Congressman Kevin Kiley
“I have a simple message to President Biden and the Senators considering Julie Su’s nomination: stop rewarding failure. From threatening millions of freelancers with financial ruin to her bungled management of the Employment Development Department, Julie Su’s tenure as California’s Labor Secretary was a disaster. She does not deserve a promotion.” –
Assembly Republican Leader James Gallagher
Other event attendees included Asm. Bill Essayli (R-Corona), Asm. Joe Patterson (R-Rocklin), Asm. Jim Patterson (R-Fresno), Asm. Tri Ta (Westminster), Aaron Gayden, a freelancer impacted by AB 5, Lincoln Chamber of Commerce President Tom Indrieri, and California Business & Industrial Alliance President Tom Manzo.
A recording of the press conference is available
HERE