SACRAMENTO – Senate Republican Leader Shannon Grove ( R-Bakersfield ) praised the decision by the Senate Budget Subcommittee #3 on Health and Human Services to provide at least an eight percent increase for service providers who care for the developmentally disabled community. Republican Senator Jeff Stone ( R-Riverside County ) is a member of this subcommittee.

Senate Republican Leader Grove pointed out that Governor Newsom’s May Revision of the budget called for a $330 million increase in spending for some providers of services to the developmentally disabled, but left some providers out. With the actions taken by the subcommittee, the developmentally disabled community will receive potentially hundreds of millions of dollars more than what the governor originally proposed, and all providers will be included.

Senate Republicans delivered a letter in February to the chairs of the Senate and Assembly Budget Committees requesting three action items for the upcoming 2019-20 fiscal year, including the eight percent rate increase for service providers.

“With a $21 billion surplus, Senate Republicans fought to make this eight percent increase a priority in the budget. I am proud that we stand united with the developmentally disabled community in this battle. We made a promise to this community and we delivered on that promise.

“The action taken this week is a big step toward securing much-needed resources for our friends, neighbors, and family members who live daily with the challenges of disabilities. I am thankful that Senator Stone, who has been a tireless advocate for the developmentally disabled community, pushed for this funding in the committee. Senate Republicans will continue to fight to make sure every tax dollar is spent on those who need it most and in the most efficient way possible,” said Senate Republican Leader Shannon Grove.

More than four decades ago, Republicans pushed for legislation that would help the developmentally disabled pursue their own goals and thrive in communities of their own choosing. Named after a Republican statesman, Frank Lanterman, and signed by Governor Ronald Reagan, the Lanterman Developmental Disabilities Services Act outlined the rights for persons with developmental disabilities and their families.

The Legislature must pass the 2019-20 Budget by June 15th.

Capitol Office

1021 O Street, Room 7150 Sacramento, CA 95814 Phone: (916) 651-4012 Fax: (916) 651-4916

Bakersfield Office

5701 Truxtun Ave., Suite 150 Bakersfield, CA 93309 Phone: (661) 323-0443 Fax: (661) 323-0446

Fresno Office

567 W. Shaw Ave., Suite A-3 Fresno, CA 93704 Phone:  559-243-8580

facebook Facebook

twitter Twitter

instagram Instagram

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

Home

About Shannon Biography Committees 12th Senate District Map

Biography

Committees

12th Senate District Map

Legislation My Legislation Bill Search Submit a Legislative Proposal

My Legislation

Bill Search

Submit a Legislative Proposal

Newsroom Releases / Editorials Photos

Releases / Editorials

Photos

Resources California Senate Fellows Program Coronavirus Information Education Register to Vote Unclaimed Property Veteran Resources

California Senate Fellows Program

Coronavirus Information

Education

Register to Vote

Unclaimed Property

Veteran Resources

Contact me My Offices E-mail the Senator Subscribe

My Offices

E-mail the Senator

Subscribe

Keeping Our Promise to the Developmentally Disabled Community

More News

View All

Breadcrumb

Aug 29
Senator Shannon Grove Celebrates Advancement of Key Bills for Special Education and Rural Healthcare, Expresses Disappointment Over Scrapping of Leno’s Law
Aug 27
VIDEO: Celebrity advocate Paris Hilton calls for passage of child protection measure ahead of key vote
Aug 25
Senator Shannon Grove and Assemblyman David Tangipa  Honor Retired NFL Quarterback, Derek Carr
Aug 21
Senator Shannon Grove opposes Democrats' attempt to override the will of California voters