Senator Shannon Grove (R-Bakersfield) authored Senate Bill 14, which would include sex trafficking of a minor in the list of crimes that are defined as serious under California law, making the crime a strike under the Three Strikes law. If passed, SB 14 will help strengthen protections for thousands of sex trafficking victims. SB 14 is a bipartisan piece of legislation that passed unanimously through the Senate and has garnered the support of 60 co-authors. In mid-late August, the measure will have a hearing in the Assembly Appropriations Committee. If passed, the measure will move to the Assembly floor for a final vote.

“Human trafficking is happening every day in our backyard and those committing this horrific act deserve to be held accountable,” said Senator Grove. “I am grateful for the continued efforts by law enforcement to save countless innocent children from this brutal crime. SB 14 would ensure repeat offenders of child sex trafficking are put behind bars, where they cannot continue to cause pain, suffering and life-long trauma.”

ABC 7 San Francisco reported that the FBI, along with Bay Area county district attorneys announced a human trafficking bust Wednesday that rescued 200 victims, including 59 minors.

“Operation Cross Country, a nationwide effort to combat human trafficking, resulted in the identification or arrest of more than five dozen suspected human traffickers and more than 100 individuals accused of child sexual exploitation. Seventeen individual operations were recently conducted over a two-week period. Locally, agents arrested nine offenders. Three Bay Area Juvenile victims were recovered and another was identified.

“… The FBI says the operation successfully rescued a total of 200 victims of human trafficking and located 59 minor victims of sex trafficking and sexual exploitation.

“Contra Costa District Attorney Diana Becton says California consistently leads all other states in reports of human trafficking to the National Human Trafficking Resource Center, accounting for 13% of all reports in the last year.

“… The Bay Area Operation Cross Country efforts also rescued 17 adult victims of human trafficking. Three illegally owned guns were also seized.”

Click here to read more of the report from ABC 7 San Francisco.

Click here to learn more about Senator Grove’s SB 14.

Capitol Office

1021 O Street, Room 7150 Sacramento, CA 95814 Phone: (916) 651-4012 Fax: (916) 651-4916

Bakersfield Office

5701 Truxtun Ave., Suite 150 Bakersfield, CA 93309 Phone: (661) 323-0443 Fax: (661) 323-0446

Fresno Office

567 W. Shaw Ave., Suite A-3 Fresno, CA 93704 Phone:  559-243-8580

facebook Facebook

twitter Twitter

instagram Instagram

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

Home

About Shannon Biography Committees 12th Senate District Map

Biography

Committees

12th Senate District Map

Legislation My Legislation Bill Search Submit a Legislative Proposal

My Legislation

Bill Search

Submit a Legislative Proposal

Newsroom Releases / Editorials Photos

Releases / Editorials

Photos

Resources California Senate Fellows Program Coronavirus Information Education Register to Vote Unclaimed Property Veteran Resources

California Senate Fellows Program

Coronavirus Information

Education

Register to Vote

Unclaimed Property

Veteran Resources

Contact me My Offices E-mail the Senator Subscribe

My Offices

E-mail the Senator

Subscribe

Latest Human Trafficking Bust Reiterates Need for Senate Bill 14

More News

View All

Breadcrumb

Aug 29
Senator Shannon Grove Celebrates Advancement of Key Bills for Special Education and Rural Healthcare, Expresses Disappointment Over Scrapping of Leno’s Law
Aug 27
VIDEO: Celebrity advocate Paris Hilton calls for passage of child protection measure ahead of key vote
Aug 25
Senator Shannon Grove and Assemblyman David Tangipa  Honor Retired NFL Quarterback, Derek Carr
Aug 21
Senator Shannon Grove opposes Democrats' attempt to override the will of California voters