In a show of bipartisanship today, Senate Republicans voted to commemorate Cinco de Mayo, via Senate Resolution 27 . While the celebration of Latino heritage commences during Latino Heritage Week, it’s worth reminding Californians of the blatant exclusion of Republican Latinos in the State’s “Legislative Latino Caucus.”

“Cinco de Mayo should be a celebration of unity for all Latinos, not exclusion,” said Senator Marie Alvarado-Gil (R-Jackson) . “You aren’t born with a political ideology, but you are born with a heritage that should be recognized across all political spectrums. The ongoing refusal to allow Republican Latinos into the caucus sends a message that heritage only matters if it aligns with a certain political agenda. That’s not a California for all, that’s a California for some.”

Ironically, the resolution authored by Latino Caucus Chair Senator Lena Gonzalez reads, in part:

“Latino voters continue to go to the polls in record numbers and influence the entrance of newly elected Latino public officials in both the Democratic and Republican parties . ….”

Despite this acknowledgment and having a record number of Republican Latinos serving in the State Legislature, the so-called “Latino Caucus” still chooses to exclude these elected officials from their group . Senator Suzette Martinez Valladares ( R-Santa Clarita) took action earlier this year to right this wrong when she founded the California Hispanic Caucus.

“The Latino Caucus talks diversity, yet erases voices that don’t fit their politics. We’re part of the Latino story, too,” Valladares was quick to tweet during debate today.

“You can’t claim to champion Latino voices while silencing ones you don’t agree with,” Valladares continued in a statement. “Republican Latinas and Latinos are shut out of the Democrats’ clubhouse in the Capitol — yet are leading across California — in our communities, in our businesses, and in public service. They can try to lock us out, but they can’t shut down our impact.”

Capitol

Valencia Office

25060 West Ave Stanford, Suite 130 Valencia, CA 91355 Phone: (661) 257-1204

Lancaster Office

42505 10th St West Suite 109 Lancaster, CA 93534 Phone: (661) 729-6232

Adelanto Office

11600 Air Expressway Adelanto, CA 92301 Phone: (760) 246-2911

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

<d

Home

About Suzette Biography Committees District Map

Biography

Committees

District Map

Legislation My Legislation Bill Search

My Legislation

Bill Search

Newsroom Releases / Opinions Media Kit

Releases / Opinions

Media Kit

Contact Me Email the Senator My Offices

Email the Senator

My Offices

Latino pride for some: Democrat Latino Caucus chooses partisanship over heritage

Breadcrumb