Senate Minority Leader Brian W. Jones ( R-San Diego ) issued the following statement regarding Governor Newsom’s recent action to expand the current special session focused on suing the Trump Administration to also include Los Angeles wildfire relief:

“I’m encouraged that Governor Newsom heard our calls to take action on the LA wildfires in a special session.

“However, lumping this emergency response together with a politically motivated special session to sue Trump is unnecessary and, frankly, insulting to those struggling through this disaster. Fire victims deserve a response that is both respectful and non-partisan, but instead, Newsom is politicizing a tragic crisis that should focus solely on aiding those in need. Sadly, these special session bills will likely include inappropriate provisions targeting the incoming federal administration alongside vital disaster relief for Californians.

“A better and more thoughtful approach would have been to convene a new special session exclusively dedicated to investigating the LA fires, supporting communities in recovery, and ensuring we are better prepared for future disasters.

“Nevertheless, Republicans remain committed to working with our Democrat colleagues to secure wildfire relief and deliver real solutions for all Californians.”

Governor Newsom’s recent action comes after Republican lawmakers urged him to convene a special session to address the devastating impacts of the wildfires and the growing instability of California’s insurance market.

Capitol Office

1021 O Street, Room 7640 Sacramento, CA 95814 Phone: (916) 651-4040 Fax: (916) 651-4940

Scripps Ranch Office

10650 Treena Street #110 San Diego, CA 92131 Phone: (858) 547-3818

Escondido Office

720 N. Broadway, Suite 110 Escondido, CA 92025 Phone: (760) 796-4655

facebook Facebook

twitter Twitter

instagram Instagram

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

Home

About Brian Biography

Biography

Legislation My Legislation Committees Bill Search

My Legislation

Committees

Bill Search

Newsroom Releases/Editorials In The News Audio/Video Are You Kidding Me? Photos Media Kit

Releases/Editorials

In The News

Audio/Video

Are You Kidding Me?

Photos

Media Kit

Contact Me Certificate Request District Internship Program District Map E-mail the Senator Legislative Proposal My Offices Subscribe to the Mailing List

Certificate Request

District Internship Program

District Map

E-mail the Senator

Legislative Proposal

My Offices

Subscribe to the Mailing List

Leader Jones Criticizes Governor for Combining Trump and Wildfire Special Sessions

More News

ICYMI

View All

Breadcrumb

Aug 6
California Republicans’ Growing Impact on Social Media
Jul 16
Leader Jones Stands on Steps of the Capitol Opposing the Anti-Charter School Bill
Jul 16
AB 84 Charter Schools Press Conference
Jul 15
Leader Jones Demands Accountability on Dangerous Sexually Violent Predator Program

Jun 17
2025
$8-a-gallon gas? Senate Minority Leader Brian W. Jones requests audit of gas price hikes
Jun 9
2025
Nixed bill could have prevented LA unrest, California minority leader says
Jun 8
2025
California lawmaker warns Menendez brothers' case is driving return of bill to release thousands of killers
Jun 3
2025
Ramona nonprofit, resident recognized with Senate District 40 awards