Photo from left to right: Lieutenant Governor Eleni Kounalaki, Senate Minority Leader Brian Jones, SD 40 Woman of the Year Maggie T. Watkins, Senator Monique Limón, and Senate Pro Tem Mike McGuire.

Senate Minority Leader Brian W. Jones ( R-San Diego ) has named Maggie T. Watkins as the 2025 “Woman of the Year” for Senate District 40.

"Maggie's unwavering dedication to philanthropy and community service has left a lasting impact on East County and beyond," said Leader Jones . "From her leadership roles on numerous nonprofit boards to her extensive work supporting vital community initiatives, Maggie's commitment to service is truly inspiring. Congratulations to Maggie for her outstanding contributions to our district."

Maggie T. Watkins, “Woman of the Year for Senate District 40,” has played a pivotal role in enhancing the philanthropic landscape of San Diego’s East County. She was an integral member of the Alpine Community Center Board during the fundraising campaign to build the Community Center and chaired multiple annual holiday galas to support this initiative. Currently, she serves on the Sharp Grossmont Hospital Foundation Board, where she has chaired both the annual Hospice Regatta and the hospital’s annual gala. Additionally, she contributes her expertise as a member of the Asset and Trust Committee and the Finance Committee. Her leadership extends to Sharp HealthCare Foundation, where she sits on the Executive Committee and chairs the Stewardship Committee.

Maggie also serves on the Salvation Army Metropolitan Advisory Board as Chair of the Nominating Committee. She has been recognized as a past Salvation Army Woman of Dedication and chaired their annual fundraising event. Furthermore, she is a dedicated member of the Girl Scouts San Diego Board Development Committee. Over the years, she has served on more than 40 nonprofit boards, often in leadership roles. Her impact was recently acknowledged when she received the first-ever Lifetime Achievement Award for nonprofit service from the Corporate Directors Forum. In 2024, the San Diego Business Journal named her one of the 500 Most Influential People in San Diego.

Beyond her extensive volunteer work, Maggie has had a distinguished career as Chief Marketing Officer for four large law firms and CEO of a global law firm association. She now leads her own professional services consultancy, helping law firms and professional services firms develop marketing and business development strategies. She is a sought-after speaker at industry and nonprofit conferences, always eager to mentor and support young professionals, particularly women, in their career advancement.

“I am truly honored to receive this recognition from Senator Jones,” said Maggie T. Watkins . “Serving our community has been a lifelong passion, and I am grateful for the opportunity to work alongside so many dedicated individuals who are committed to making a difference.”

Since 1987, the Legislative Women’s Caucus has encouraged all legislators to recognize a special woman in their district each year in honor of “Women’s History Month,” which occurs in March.

Capitol Office

1021 O Street, Room 7640 Sacramento, CA 95814 Phone: (916) 651-4040 Fax: (916) 651-4940

Scripps Ranch Office

10650 Treena Street #110 San Diego, CA 92131 Phone: (858) 547-3818

Escondido Office

720 N. Broadway, Suite 110 Escondido, CA 92025 Phone: (760) 796-4655

facebook Facebook

twitter Twitter

instagram Instagram

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

Home

About Brian Biography

Biography

Legislation My Legislation Committees Bill Search

My Legislation

Committees

Bill Search

Newsroom Releases/Editorials In The News Audio/Video Are You Kidding Me? Photos Media Kit

Releases/Editorials

In The News

Audio/Video

Are You Kidding Me?

Photos

Media Kit

Contact Me Certificate Request District Internship Program District Map E-mail the Senator Legislative Proposal My Offices Subscribe to the Mailing List

Certificate Request

District Internship Program

District Map

E-mail the Senator

Legislative Proposal

My Offices

Subscribe to the Mailing List

Leader Jones Celebrates Maggie T. Watkins as the Senate District 40 Woman of the Year

More News

ICYMI

View All

Breadcrumb

Aug 6
California Republicans’ Growing Impact on Social Media
Jul 16
Leader Jones Stands on Steps of the Capitol Opposing the Anti-Charter School Bill
Jul 16
AB 84 Charter Schools Press Conference
Jul 15
Leader Jones Demands Accountability on Dangerous Sexually Violent Predator Program

Jun 17
2025
$8-a-gallon gas? Senate Minority Leader Brian W. Jones requests audit of gas price hikes
Jun 9
2025
Nixed bill could have prevented LA unrest, California minority leader says
Jun 8
2025
California lawmaker warns Menendez brothers' case is driving return of bill to release thousands of killers
Jun 3
2025
Ramona nonprofit, resident recognized with Senate District 40 awards