This morning, Senate Minority Leader Brian W. Jones (R-San Diego) announced he requested an independent audit of the California Air Resources Board (CARB) for its secretive overhaul of the Low Carbon Fuel Standard (LCFS)—a regulation expected to raise gasoline prices by up to 65 cents per gallon when it takes effect on July 1. Click here to read the audit request.

At the same time, Leader Jones launched a statewide Change.org petition urging Governor Gavin Newsom to repeal the costly regulation and provide immediate relief at the pump.

“Californians are demanding answers and action before yet another hidden tax hits the pump,” said Leader Jones. “After nearly a month of stonewalling from the Newsom Administration, this audit is the only way to expose what they’re hiding. Meanwhile, thousands of Californians have already signed my petition to repeal the regulation entirely.”

The audit request follows Leader Jones’ Public Records Act (PRA) request filed on May 21 seeking all communications, economic projections, and briefing materials from CARB and Governor Gavin Newsom’s office regarding the LCFS. As of today, 28 days later, not a single record or document has been produced. The audit is a necessary next step to hold unelected regulators and the Newsom administration accountable for misleading the public on the true cost of their climate mandates.

In a letter to the Joint Legislative Audit Committee (JLAC) , Leader Jones cites contradictory statements from CARB officials about the LCFS price impact, including the agency’s withdrawal of its own estimate, originally showing per‑gallon increases beginning this year and climbing to more than a dollar by 2042. The audit request asks the State Auditor to determine whether CARB:

Uses sound methods when estimating economic impacts.

Meets legal transparency requirements.

Balances economic, equity, and environmental concerns appropriately.

Has concealed or downplayed costs that the public and decision-makers deserve to know.

“The public deserves to know whether CARB followed legal transparency requirements, whether they hid anything from the public, and whether they properly weighed economic and environmental impacts before pushing through this costly regulation,” Leader Jones added. “This audit will help uncover the truth and restore trust in the regulatory process.”

The Joint Legislative Audit Committee will consider Leader Jones’s request at its next hearing in August. If approved, the nonpartisan State Auditor will have full authority to examine CARB’s files and interview staff.

Background on California’s Highest in the Nation Gas Prices

A few weeks ago, Leader Jones forced a floor vote to repeal LCFS , but Senate Democrats voted unanimously to keep the price-hiking regulation in place.

CARB Chair Liane Randolph has admitted that the Board does not consider how its regulations affect prices at the pump, confirming growing concerns that Newsom’s climate agenda is blind to its economic consequences. CARB is comprised of a panel of wealthy unelected bureaucrats who are hand-picked and directed by the Governor .

Meanwhile, Californians are about to get hit again. The California Department of Tax and Fee Administration announced that the state’s gas excise tax will increase to 61.2 cents per gallon on July 1, the same day that the new 65-cent LCFS regulations will take effect. That’s a one-two punch at the pump for working families already crushed by the cost of living. Rather than offering relief, Sacramento is doubling down on higher gas prices.

The consequences of constant regulatory overload are staggering. According to USC Professor Michael Mische, California gas prices could soar 75% to $8.43 per gallon by 2026, driven by refinery shutdowns and the state’s overreach with excessive regulation and taxation, including the updated LCFS.

Leader Jones has been a leading voice in the fight to repeal Governor Newsom’s 65-cent gas hike and lower fuel costs for Californians. He sounded the alarm early in an op-ed published in the San Diego Union-Tribune , exposing Newsom’s plan to raise gas prices and push drivers out of gas-powered cars and into electric vehicles. He also introduced Senate Bill 2 , his legislation to repeal LCFS. Senate Democrats voted to block the bill, twice .

Capitol Office

1021 O Street, Room 7640 Sacramento, CA 95814 Phone: (916) 651-4040 Fax: (916) 651-4940

Scripps Ranch Office

10650 Treena Street #110 San Diego, CA 92131 Phone: (858) 547-3818

Escondido Office

720 N. Broadway, Suite 110 Escondido, CA 92025 Phone: (760) 796-4655

facebook Facebook

twitter Twitter

instagram Instagram

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

Home

About Brian Biography

Biography

Legislation My Legislation Committees Bill Search

My Legislation

Committees

Bill Search

Newsroom Releases/Editorials In The News Audio/Video Are You Kidding Me? Photos Media Kit

Releases/Editorials

In The News

Audio/Video

Are You Kidding Me?

Photos

Media Kit

Contact Me Certificate Request District Internship Program District Map E-mail the Senator Legislative Proposal My Offices Subscribe to the Mailing List

Certificate Request

District Internship Program

District Map

E-mail the Senator

Legislative Proposal

My Offices

Subscribe to the Mailing List

Leader Jones Demands Audit of Newsom’s Gas Price Hike

More News

ICYMI

View All

Breadcrumb

Aug 6
California Republicans’ Growing Impact on Social Media
Jul 16
Leader Jones Stands on Steps of the Capitol Opposing the Anti-Charter School Bill
Jul 16
AB 84 Charter Schools Press Conference
Jul 15
Leader Jones Demands Accountability on Dangerous Sexually Violent Predator Program

Jun 17
2025
$8-a-gallon gas? Senate Minority Leader Brian W. Jones requests audit of gas price hikes
Jun 9
2025
Nixed bill could have prevented LA unrest, California minority leader says
Jun 8
2025
California lawmaker warns Menendez brothers' case is driving return of bill to release thousands of killers
Jun 3
2025
Ramona nonprofit, resident recognized with Senate District 40 awards