Today, Senate Minority Leader Brian W. Jones ( R-San Diego ) warned Californians to prepare for unpredictable and fast-rising fuel prices as two major state-imposed gas cost increases hit on July 1 st .

Starting today:

1. The state gas tax increases again , now hitting 61.2 cents per gallon , the highest gas tax in the nation.

2. The Newsom Administration’s Low Carbon Fuel Standard (LCFS) regulations take effect, which could raise gas prices by 65 cents. The regulations quietly passed by the California Air Resources Board (CARB) imposed additional costs, buried in the fuel supply chain, and passed directly onto drivers. A report from the University of Pennsylvania estimates the regulation could raise gas prices by up to 65 cents per gallon in the near term.

“Californians need to be ready,” said Leader Jones. “Start saving now and brace for sticker shock at the pump. With these new state-imposed costs, fuel prices are expected to spike unpredictably throughout the summer and the foreseeable future. People need to prepare.”

Industry experts warn that these changes will lead to volatile and fast-rising fuel prices over the next few months, especially as LCFS credit markets fluctuate and refinery constraints increase.

“Governor Newsom and Democrat lawmakers had several chances to stop the gas tax increase in the state budget, but instead, they quickly gobbled up the extra revenue for pet projects like the High Speed Rail,” continuedLeader Jones. “Meanwhile, Newsom is directly responsible for the costly Low Carbon Fuel Standard regulations, and every single Democrat in the Legislature voted to protect them. I gave Democrat lawmakers a chance to repeal LCFS through Senate Bill 2, but they chose higher prices over hardworking Californians.”

Leader Jones has been leading the charge against Newsom’s gas price hikes:

Demanded a state audit of the LCFS program to expose hidden costs and market manipulation

Forced a floor vote on his Senate Bill 2 , to repeal LCFS and protect consumers

Filed a Public Records Act request to obtain internal communications and records from Governor Newsom’s office and CARB relating to LCFS

Launched a statewide petition to repeal the LCFS expansion, drawing over 40,000 signatures from angry Californians in just two weeks

“This is not climate leadership, it’s a government cash grab on California drivers. Sadly, the state’s high gas prices are by design. Newsom pushed these policies so Californians have no choice but to buy an EV," concluded Leader Jones.

The consequences of constant regulatory overload are staggering. According to USC Professor Michael Mische, California gas prices could soar 75% to $8.43 per gallon by 2026, driven by refinery shutdowns and the state’s overreach with excessive regulation and taxation, including the updated LCFS.

Leader Jones sounded the alarm early about LCFS in an op-ed published in the San Diego Union-Tribune , exposing Newsom’s plan to raise gas prices and push drivers out of gas-powered cars and into electric vehicles.

Capitol Office

1021 O Street, Room 7640 Sacramento, CA 95814 Phone: (916) 651-4040 Fax: (916) 651-4940

Scripps Ranch Office

10650 Treena Street #110 San Diego, CA 92131 Phone: (858) 547-3818

Escondido Office

720 N. Broadway, Suite 110 Escondido, CA 92025 Phone: (760) 796-4655

facebook Facebook

twitter Twitter

instagram Instagram

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

Home

About Brian Biography

Biography

Legislation My Legislation Committees Bill Search

My Legislation

Committees

Bill Search

Newsroom Releases/Editorials In The News Audio/Video Are You Kidding Me? Photos Media Kit

Releases/Editorials

In The News

Audio/Video

Are You Kidding Me?

Photos

Media Kit

Contact Me Certificate Request District Internship Program District Map E-mail the Senator Legislative Proposal My Offices Subscribe to the Mailing List

Certificate Request

District Internship Program

District Map

E-mail the Senator

Legislative Proposal

My Offices

Subscribe to the Mailing List

Leader Jones Warns Californians to Brace for Skyrocketing Gas Prices

More News

ICYMI

View All

Breadcrumb

Aug 6
California Republicans’ Growing Impact on Social Media
Jul 16
Leader Jones Stands on Steps of the Capitol Opposing the Anti-Charter School Bill
Jul 16
AB 84 Charter Schools Press Conference
Jul 15
Leader Jones Demands Accountability on Dangerous Sexually Violent Predator Program

Jun 17
2025
$8-a-gallon gas? Senate Minority Leader Brian W. Jones requests audit of gas price hikes
Jun 9
2025
Nixed bill could have prevented LA unrest, California minority leader says
Jun 8
2025
California lawmaker warns Menendez brothers' case is driving return of bill to release thousands of killers
Jun 3
2025
Ramona nonprofit, resident recognized with Senate District 40 awards