Senate Minority Leader Brian Jones ( R-San Diego) has named Paula Jansen and Tony Teravainen the Senate District 40 “Veterans of the Year.”

“Paula Jansen and Tony Teravainen exemplify the spirit of service, both in and out of uniform,” said Leader Jones. “After their honorable service in the U.S. Navy, they channeled their dedication into community service, uplifting fellow veterans, and fostering positive change. Their commitment to protecting our freedoms and their efforts to strengthen our communities embody the values the Veteran of the Year Award seeks to honor.”

Paula Jansen of Lakeside

Served as Chief Petty Officer in the U.S. Navy and is now the Junior Vice Commander of the Veterans of Foreign Wars Department of California. Jansen is a dedicated advocate for veterans and a champion of military causes across the state. She provides essential support to veterans, leads impactful projects like Paws for Purple Hearts and Wreaths Across America , and organizes ceremonies honoring POW/MIA heroes. As the leader of the Miss Military Star pageant program, Jansen empowers young women to honor veterans and military causes through volunteerism, fundraising, and education. From brightening VA hospitals during the holidays to supporting local VFWs, Jansen's work embodies service, compassion, and unwavering commitment to those who have served.

Tony Teravainen of Scripps Ranch

Served as Petty Officer First Class in the U.S. Navy and is now a co-founder of Support The Enlisted Project (STEP). Teravainen has dedicated his life to supporting military families. Under his leadership, STEP has provided immediate financial relief and long-term financial counseling to over 8,500 military families, helping them achieve stability and wellness. Teravainen's efforts have earned prestigious accolades, including the Spirit of Hope Award from the Secretary of Defense. Guided by his core values—Do the Right Thing, Honor Patriotism & Service to Country, Build Relationships, Respect Others, and Deliver Results with Excellence—Teravainen continues to make a profound impact on the military community.

Leader Jones also recognized 16 “Honored Veterans of Senate District 40”:

Barry Bernstein, US Army, University City

Alexander Buggy, U.S. Navy, Carmel Valley

Edward Michael Clancy, US Army, Lakeside

Glen Cook, US Navy, Santee

John Drdek, US Navy, Scripps Ranch

Ed Embly, US Marine Corps, Escondido

Mike Gardiner, US Navy, San Marcos

Cory Gautereaux, US Army, Pine Valley

Gary Harrison, US Marine Corps, Scripps Ranch

Bennadine Johnson, US Marine Corps, Carmel Mountain Ranch

Thomas Kilpela, US Army, El Cajon

Glenn Kunz, US Army, Bonsall

Al Lejarde, US Marine Corps, Escondido

Jhon Londono, US Army, El Cajon

DuVal Warner, US Marine Corps, Mira Mesa

Captain E. Royce Williams, US Navy, Escondido

“We are fortunate to have many exceptional veterans in Senate District 40 who continue to make a difference long after their military service,” added Leader Jones. “Our ‘Honored Veterans of Senate District 40’ remind us of the ongoing extraordinary contributions of those who have bravely served our nation. We owe an immeasurable debt of gratitude to these individuals who remain steadfast in supporting their fellow veterans and enriching our communities.”

Capitol Office

1021 O Street, Room 7640 Sacramento, CA 95814 Phone: (916) 651-4040 Fax: (916) 651-4940

Scripps Ranch Office

10650 Treena Street #110 San Diego, CA 92131 Phone: (858) 547-3818

Escondido Office

720 N. Broadway, Suite 110 Escondido, CA 92025 Phone: (760) 796-4655

facebook Facebook

twitter Twitter

instagram Instagram

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

Leader Jones with the Senate District 40 2024 ‘Honored Veterans of the Year’. Click here for the full size photo.

Leader Jones with the Senate District 40 2024 ‘Veterans of the Year’ Tony Teravainen (left) and Paula Jansen (right) Click here for the full size photo.

Home

About Brian Biography

Biography

Legislation My Legislation Committees Bill Search

My Legislation

Committees

Bill Search

Newsroom Releases/Editorials In The News Audio/Video Are You Kidding Me? Photos Media Kit

Releases/Editorials

In The News

Audio/Video

Are You Kidding Me?

Photos

Media Kit

Contact Me Certificate Request District Internship Program District Map E-mail the Senator Legislative Proposal My Offices Subscribe to the Mailing List

Certificate Request

District Internship Program

District Map

E-mail the Senator

Legislative Proposal

My Offices

Subscribe to the Mailing List

Leader Jones Honors “Veterans of the Year” for Senate District 40

More News

ICYMI

View All

Breadcrumb

Aug 6
California Republicans’ Growing Impact on Social Media
Jul 16
Leader Jones Stands on Steps of the Capitol Opposing the Anti-Charter School Bill
Jul 16
AB 84 Charter Schools Press Conference
Jul 15
Leader Jones Demands Accountability on Dangerous Sexually Violent Predator Program

Jun 17
2025
$8-a-gallon gas? Senate Minority Leader Brian W. Jones requests audit of gas price hikes
Jun 9
2025
Nixed bill could have prevented LA unrest, California minority leader says
Jun 8
2025
California lawmaker warns Menendez brothers' case is driving return of bill to release thousands of killers
Jun 3
2025
Ramona nonprofit, resident recognized with Senate District 40 awards