Jones Calls to Close the Border to New Migrants

Senate Minority Leader Brian W. Jones (R-San Diego) visited the California-Mexico border amidst a growing crisis that continues to strain San Diego County and the nation. Jones was joined by San Diego County Supervisor Joel Anderson (Alpine) and the Chief of Staff for Senator Catherine Blakespear (D-Encinitas). San Diego Border Patrol sounded the alarm with Leader Jones about public safety and terrorism concerns regarding the “open border.”

“While the border and migrant crisis is inherently a federal issue, my constituents in San Diego County are paying the price of the federal government’s failure to address the situation,” said Leader Jones.

“I visited the region to learn more about the crisis on the ground. I commend Border Patrol agents for their outstanding job during this crisis, but they can only do so much. Without a coordinated strategy to safely process incoming migrants, the federal government has handicapped these agents from doing their job effectively. I’m advocating to close the border to new migrants and focus our resources on the migrants who have already arrived.”

On the tour, Border Patrol highlighted their strained resources, security concerns and challenges, and security infrastructure projects.

“The situation at the border is dangerous and unsustainable, especially for local governments like San Diego that are forced to divert resources from critical programs to deal with the crisis,” Leader Jones noted. “I cannot emphasize this enough - the federal government must pass comprehensive immigration reform and fix this issue immediately.”

Facts from U.S. Customs & Border Patrol Agency, San Diego Sector:

The region is struggling with the influx of migrants as up to 1,200 asylum seekers arrive in San Diego every day .

Over 230,000 migrants crossed the San Diego border this year and 99% of them were released, often with minimal security checks to confirm their identity.

There is an unprecedented uptick in migrants from China , Africa , and the Middle East . In regards to migrant demographic shifts, Border Patrol warned Leader Jones about their strong concerns for national security.

San Diego Border Patrol recently sounded the alarm that “foreign fighters” may attempt to enter the country through the Southwest border in the wake of the Israel-Hamas war, specifically referencing logos of Hamas, Hezbollah, and the Palestine Islamic Jihad.

Customs and Border Protection have released 42,000 migrants into San Diego County between September and November of this year. Border Patrol informed Leader Jones that the amount of migrants being released is not anticipated to drop anytime soon, so the County can expect to continue seeing massive numbers of migrants released.

Capitol Office

1021 O Street, Room 7640 Sacramento, CA 95814 Phone: (916) 651-4040 Fax: (916) 651-4940

Scripps Ranch Office

10650 Treena Street #110 San Diego, CA 92131 Phone: (858) 547-3818

Escondido Office

720 N. Broadway, Suite 110 Escondido, CA 92025 Phone: (760) 796-4655

facebook Facebook

twitter Twitter

instagram Instagram

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

Senate Minority Leader Brian W. Jones with Border Patrol Agents

Senate Minority Leader Jones, San Diego County Supervisor Joel Anderson, Senator Catherine Blakespear’s District Director Jack Christensen

Senate Minority Leader Jones and Supervisor Anderson

Senate Minority Leader Jones with Border Patrol Agents, elected officials, and staff

Home

About Brian Biography

Biography

Legislation My Legislation Committees Bill Search

My Legislation

Committees

Bill Search

Newsroom Releases/Editorials In The News Audio/Video Are You Kidding Me? Photos Media Kit

Releases/Editorials

In The News

Audio/Video

Are You Kidding Me?

Photos

Media Kit

Contact Me Certificate Request District Internship Program District Map E-mail the Senator Legislative Proposal My Offices Subscribe to the Mailing List

Certificate Request

District Internship Program

District Map

E-mail the Senator

Legislative Proposal

My Offices

Subscribe to the Mailing List

Leader Jones Visits California-Mexico Border on Bipartisan Tour

More News

ICYMI

View All

Breadcrumb

Aug 6
California Republicans’ Growing Impact on Social Media
Jul 16
Leader Jones Stands on Steps of the Capitol Opposing the Anti-Charter School Bill
Jul 16
AB 84 Charter Schools Press Conference
Jul 15
Leader Jones Demands Accountability on Dangerous Sexually Violent Predator Program

Jun 17
2025
$8-a-gallon gas? Senate Minority Leader Brian W. Jones requests audit of gas price hikes
Jun 9
2025
Nixed bill could have prevented LA unrest, California minority leader says
Jun 8
2025
California lawmaker warns Menendez brothers' case is driving return of bill to release thousands of killers
Jun 3
2025
Ramona nonprofit, resident recognized with Senate District 40 awards