Senate Minority Leader Brian W. Jones (R-San Diego) has named Ginger Couvrette as the 2024 “Woman of the Year” and recognized 10 “Distinguished Women” of Senate District 40.

"Ginger's unwavering dedication to community betterment shines through in every endeavor," said Leader Jones. "From her pivotal roles in education and real estate to her extensive volunteer work and leadership positions, her contributions have truly transformed Poway. Congratulations to Ginger for her relentless commitment to making our community thrive."

Ginger Couvrette, “Woman of the Year for Senate District 40,” is a dedicated community leader and 30-year resident in the City of Poway. She exemplifies a lifetime commitment to service and advocacy. She raised her family in Poway, and her volunteering matured as her kids grew. With a profound passion for her community, Ginger has served as a vital member of the Poway Unified School District Board, advocating tirelessly for initiatives such as career technology education, homeless student services, and dual college enrollment.

As co-founder of the non-profit Poway Community Foundation, she has played a pivotal role in fostering community cohesion and support. Beyond her professional achievements as CEO of Halcyon Real Estate, where she ranks among the top 1% of sales, Ginger extends her influence through her roles on various advisory boards, including the Government Advisor Board for the San Diego Association of Realtors. Her dedication to uplifting others is further demonstrated through her involvement with The Oasis Center on the Board of Directors and her coordination of the Chaparral Elementary Thanksgiving family meal program. With a rich history of leadership spanning organizations such as the Poway Sports Association and the Poway Parks & Recreation Committee, Ginger's commitment to enhancing the quality of life for residents shines through in every endeavor.

“Thank you to Senator Jones for this honor,” said Ginger Couvrette. “To be surrounded by so many amazing ladies doing so many wonderful things for the community, I am humbled yet energized! I am happy to include all those committee members from our various community activities who help serve Poway and make it such a special place.”

Leader Jones also recognized the following “Distinguished Women of Senate District 40”:

Dr. Lynn Ceresino Neault: Chancellor of Grossmont-Cuyamaca Community College District

Sally Cox: CEO of the Foundation for Grossmont and Cuyamaca Colleges

Jill Fleming: Director of 678 Pageants, Lakeside, Ramona, and Julian

Jacqueline “Jackie” Heyneman: Save Our Forest, Fallbrook Scarecrow Days, “Perking up Pico” and ‘Take a Seat” Fundraiser

Hon. Lara Hoefer Moir: Lakeside Union School District Board Member & Lakeside Chamber of Commerce

Eileen Kaufman: Rancho Bernardo Community & 4 Paws of Love

Susan Lancaster: Descanso Town Hall Association

Hon. Robin Maxson: Ramona Community Planning Group, Ramona Grant Steering Committee & San Diego County Association of Planning Groups

Yessenia Mendoza: Escondido Chamber Charitable Foundation & Escondido Chamber of Commerce

Coleen Owens: Lakeside Historical Society, Maine Ave. Revitalization Assoc. & Lakeside VFW Auxiliary

“In addition to our ‘Woman of the Year,’ we have many noteworthy and honorable women in Senate District 40 ,” continued Leader Jones. “All these women help make our community thrive and they all deserve recognition.”

Since 1987 the Legislative Women’s Caucus has encouraged all legislators to recognize a special woman in their district each year in honor of “Women’s History Month,” which occurs in March.

Capitol Office

1021 O Street, Room 7640 Sacramento, CA 95814 Phone: (916) 651-4040 Fax: (916) 651-4940

Scripps Ranch Office

10650 Treena Street #110 San Diego, CA 92131 Phone: (858) 547-3818

Escondido Office

720 N. Broadway, Suite 110 Escondido, CA 92025 Phone: (760) 796-4655

facebook Facebook

twitter Twitter

instagram Instagram

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

Home

About Brian Biography

Biography

Legislation My Legislation Committees Bill Search

My Legislation

Committees

Bill Search

Newsroom Releases/Editorials In The News Audio/Video Are You Kidding Me? Photos Media Kit

Releases/Editorials

In The News

Audio/Video

Are You Kidding Me?

Photos

Media Kit

Contact Me Certificate Request District Internship Program District Map E-mail the Senator Legislative Proposal My Offices Subscribe to the Mailing List

Certificate Request

District Internship Program

District Map

E-mail the Senator

Legislative Proposal

My Offices

Subscribe to the Mailing List

Leader Jones selects Ginger Couvrette as “Woman of the Year” for Senate District 40

More News

ICYMI

View All

Breadcrumb

Aug 6
California Republicans’ Growing Impact on Social Media
Jul 16
Leader Jones Stands on Steps of the Capitol Opposing the Anti-Charter School Bill
Jul 16
AB 84 Charter Schools Press Conference
Jul 15
Leader Jones Demands Accountability on Dangerous Sexually Violent Predator Program

Jun 17
2025
$8-a-gallon gas? Senate Minority Leader Brian W. Jones requests audit of gas price hikes
Jun 9
2025
Nixed bill could have prevented LA unrest, California minority leader says
Jun 8
2025
California lawmaker warns Menendez brothers' case is driving return of bill to release thousands of killers
Jun 3
2025
Ramona nonprofit, resident recognized with Senate District 40 awards