Today, Senate Minority Leader Brian W. Jones (R-San Diego) announced his Senate Bill 654 , a measure sponsored by his constituents, unanimously passed off the Assembly Floor. SB 654 addresses ambiguity in state law regarding airport and hangar leases.

“Helping constituents is the most rewarding part of my job as a senator,” said Leader Jones. “This bill will help bring clarity to the law so the state more fairly serves its citizens, including my constituents who have been directly impacted by this issue. I strongly encourage Californians to raise problems they see in the law with their representative and work together to resolve them. I am thrilled we were able to fix this airport lease ambiguity for my constituents.”

After noticing inconsistencies in San Diego County about the law’s interpretation, Leader Jones’s constituents raised the issue. As a result of unclear statutes, San Diego County formed a unique policy that forbids the extension of airport and hangar leases beyond a period of 50 years, even in cases where the lease has been inherited or purchased by a new individual. This policy has hampered investment in airport facility maintenance, which relies on lessee investments that often take decades to pay off. The County’s policy directly impacted the constituents’ involvement at a local airport.

“With the passage of SB 654, all of our problems related to our local airport will disappear and we will quickly see a lot of new capital investments along with new environmentally sustainable projects being implemented on all County Airports,” said Darren Miller, a constituent sponsor of the bill. “Thank you Senator Jones for listening to your constituents and helping fix this problem for the betterment of all Californians.”

Specifically, SB 654 clarifies existing law to give explicit permission to local airports to extend airport hangar leases beyond a 50-year total, so long as no single lease term is longer than 50 years. This clarification places all county airports on a level playing field, ensures equal application of state law across counties, and restores investment in California’s airport infrastructure.

SB 654 passed off the Senate and Assembly Floors unanimously with strong bipartisan support. The measure now heads to Governor Newsom’s desk for his signature.

Capitol Office

1021 O Street, Room 7640 Sacramento, CA 95814 Phone: (916) 651-4040 Fax: (916) 651-4940

Scripps Ranch Office

10650 Treena Street #110 San Diego, CA 92131 Phone: (858) 547-3818

Escondido Office

720 N. Broadway, Suite 110 Escondido, CA 92025 Phone: (760) 796-4655

facebook Facebook

twitter Twitter

instagram Instagram

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

Home

About Brian Biography

Biography

Legislation My Legislation Committees Bill Search

My Legislation

Committees

Bill Search

Newsroom Releases/Editorials In The News Audio/Video Are You Kidding Me? Photos Media Kit

Releases/Editorials

In The News

Audio/Video

Are You Kidding Me?

Photos

Media Kit

Contact Me Certificate Request District Internship Program District Map E-mail the Senator Legislative Proposal My Offices Subscribe to the Mailing List

Certificate Request

District Internship Program

District Map

E-mail the Senator

Legislative Proposal

My Offices

Subscribe to the Mailing List

Leader Jones’s Airport Bill Flies to Governor’s Desk with Unanimous Approval

More News

ICYMI

View All

Breadcrumb

Aug 6
California Republicans’ Growing Impact on Social Media
Jul 16
Leader Jones Stands on Steps of the Capitol Opposing the Anti-Charter School Bill
Jul 16
AB 84 Charter Schools Press Conference
Jul 15
Leader Jones Demands Accountability on Dangerous Sexually Violent Predator Program

Jun 17
2025
$8-a-gallon gas? Senate Minority Leader Brian W. Jones requests audit of gas price hikes
Jun 9
2025
Nixed bill could have prevented LA unrest, California minority leader says
Jun 8
2025
California lawmaker warns Menendez brothers' case is driving return of bill to release thousands of killers
Jun 3
2025
Ramona nonprofit, resident recognized with Senate District 40 awards