Today, Senate Minority Leader Brian W. Jones ( R-San Diego ) spoke in strong opposition to all six of Governor Gavin Newsom’s appointees to the Board of Parole Hearings. Click here to watch Leader Jones’s statement on the Senate Floor.

“Today’s Board of Parole ‘Commissioners’ are obsessed with freeing up bed space, closing prisons, and releasing killers, rapists, and torturers,” said Leader Jones. “Crime victims and their families have lost faith in this board, which has reportedly censored testimony and submissions by crime victims. While it’s up to the Senate to restore faith in our justice process, unfortunately, the Senate today refused to stand up to the governor and instead rubber stamped his horrible appointees who frequently allow murders and other violent criminals out of prison early.”

Crime Victims Alliance wrote a very raw and emotional letter explaining their strong opposition to Governor Newsom’s appointments to the Board. Click here to read the letter.

Below is an excerpt from the Crime Victims Alliance’s letter:

“We are gravely concerned with the blatant interference of the Board of Parole Hearings’ administration limiting the information presented to the Commissioners that is necessary to make their decisions in determining parole suitability.

“Unfortunately, no Board Commissioner has spoken up against this injustice, and in fact, many point to the Executive Officer as their ‘boss’ whom they take direction from when in fact, it is the Governor they report to.”

Today’s Senate vote confirmed Robert A. Barton, Kevin Chappell, Gilbert R. Infante, Kathleen O’Meara, Catherine Purcell, and Neil Schneider to the Board of Parole Hearings.

Capitol Office

1021 O Street, Room 7640 Sacramento, CA 95814 Phone: (916) 651-4040 Fax: (916) 651-4940

Scripps Ranch Office

10650 Treena Street #110 San Diego, CA 92131 Phone: (858) 547-3818

Escondido Office

720 N. Broadway, Suite 110 Escondido, CA 92025 Phone: (760) 796-4655

facebook Facebook

twitter Twitter

instagram Instagram

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

Home

About Brian Biography

Biography

Legislation My Legislation Committees Bill Search

My Legislation

Committees

Bill Search

Newsroom Releases/Editorials In The News Audio/Video Are You Kidding Me? Photos Media Kit

Releases/Editorials

In The News

Audio/Video

Are You Kidding Me?

Photos

Media Kit

Contact Me Certificate Request District Internship Program District Map E-mail the Senator Legislative Proposal My Offices Subscribe to the Mailing List

Certificate Request

District Internship Program

District Map

E-mail the Senator

Legislative Proposal

My Offices

Subscribe to the Mailing List

Leader Jones Speaks Out Against Newsom Appointees on Senate Floor

More News

ICYMI

View All

Breadcrumb

Aug 6
California Republicans’ Growing Impact on Social Media
Jul 16
Leader Jones Stands on Steps of the Capitol Opposing the Anti-Charter School Bill
Jul 16
AB 84 Charter Schools Press Conference
Jul 15
Leader Jones Demands Accountability on Dangerous Sexually Violent Predator Program

Jun 17
2025
$8-a-gallon gas? Senate Minority Leader Brian W. Jones requests audit of gas price hikes
Jun 9
2025
Nixed bill could have prevented LA unrest, California minority leader says
Jun 8
2025
California lawmaker warns Menendez brothers' case is driving return of bill to release thousands of killers
Jun 3
2025
Ramona nonprofit, resident recognized with Senate District 40 awards