Senate Minority Leader Brian W. Jones (R-San Diego) praised the San Diego City Council, comprised of entirely Democrat members, for passing the Unsafe Camping Ordinance, accomplishing what Capitol Democrat lawmakers refuse to do.

“Thank you to the five members of the San Diego City Council who supported the ‘Unsafe Camping Ordinance,’” said Leader Jones. “As I’ve said from the beginning, compassionately clearing encampments is not a partisan issue. Last night, the San Diego City Council proved that. While Capitol Democrat lawmakers refuse to act on homelessness, we will be monitoring the implementation and effectiveness of the Unsafe Camping Ordinance with the goal of taking it statewide. It’s time to fix California.”

The Unsafe Camping Ordinance , introduced by San Diego City Councilmember Stephen Whitburn (D-District 3) and supported by Democrat San Diego Mayor Todd Gloria, passed on a 5-4 vote last night. The Ordinance prohibits homeless encampments in all public spaces, including schools and parks, in the City of San Diego if shelter beds are available.

The Ordinance is similar to Leader Jones’s bipartisan Senate Bill 31 , which aims to compassionately clear homeless encampments statewide. Specifically, SB 31 prohibits homeless encampments near the sensitive community areas of schools, daycare centers, parks, and libraries. Additionally, the bill requires enforcement officers to give a 72-hour notice before an encampment sweep, and requires enforcement officers to provide information about sleeping alternatives, homeless and mental health services, and homeless shelters. Over 2,000 Californians have signed the petition in support of SB 31. The measure was stalled in the Senate Public Safety Committee on a 1-1 party-line vote in March 2023, and Democrat lawmakers refused to negotiate a path forward for the bill.

“I’m renewing my calls for Capitol Democrats to act on homeless encampments and focus on the safety and wellbeing of the most vulnerable in our communities,” continued Leader Jones. “The current statewide approach to homelessness is clearly failing and Californians are tired of it. It’s time for all elected officials to follow the lead of the San Diego City Council and prioritize compassion and safety over political gamesmanship. We will not give up on the fight to protect our communities and compassionately clear encampments.”

Leader Jones has been a vocal trailblazer in holding elected officials accountable for the homelessness crisis, calling out California’s increasing homeless population , highlighting the dangerous aspects of the crisis, criticizing failed efforts to address it, and proposing solutions to compassionately clear encampments.

Capitol Office

1021 O Street, Room 7640 Sacramento, CA 95814 Phone: (916) 651-4040 Fax: (916) 651-4940

Scripps Ranch Office

10650 Treena Street #110 San Diego, CA 92131 Phone: (858) 547-3818

Escondido Office

720 N. Broadway, Suite 110 Escondido, CA 92025 Phone: (760) 796-4655

facebook Facebook

twitter Twitter

instagram Instagram

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

Home

About Brian Biography

Biography

Legislation My Legislation Committees Bill Search

My Legislation

Committees

Bill Search

Newsroom Releases/Editorials In The News Audio/Video Are You Kidding Me? Photos Media Kit

Releases/Editorials

In The News

Audio/Video

Are You Kidding Me?

Photos

Media Kit

Contact Me Certificate Request District Internship Program District Map E-mail the Senator Legislative Proposal My Offices Subscribe to the Mailing List

Certificate Request

District Internship Program

District Map

E-mail the Senator

Legislative Proposal

My Offices

Subscribe to the Mailing List

Leader Jones praises Democrats on San Diego City Council for acting on homeless encampments

More News

ICYMI

View All

Breadcrumb

Aug 6
California Republicans’ Growing Impact on Social Media
Jul 16
Leader Jones Stands on Steps of the Capitol Opposing the Anti-Charter School Bill
Jul 16
AB 84 Charter Schools Press Conference
Jul 15
Leader Jones Demands Accountability on Dangerous Sexually Violent Predator Program

Jun 17
2025
$8-a-gallon gas? Senate Minority Leader Brian W. Jones requests audit of gas price hikes
Jun 9
2025
Nixed bill could have prevented LA unrest, California minority leader says
Jun 8
2025
California lawmaker warns Menendez brothers' case is driving return of bill to release thousands of killers
Jun 3
2025
Ramona nonprofit, resident recognized with Senate District 40 awards