Today, Senate Minority Leader Brian W. Jones (R-San Diego) declared a major victory for California State Senate Republicans in the 2024 election.

“This election, Californians sent a clear message that they are fed up with the Democrat supermajority’s failures on critical issues including affordability, homelessness, and crime,” said Leader Jones. “As Californians reject our state’s current failed Democrat leadership, they are shifting right. Senate Republicans are growing in numbers and we are thrilled to enter 2025 with 10 members in our caucus, up from 8 members just one year ago.”

Senate Republican Election Results:

District 1: Current Republican Assemblywoman Megan Dahle ( R-Bieber ) was elected to replace outgoing Senator Brian Dahle ( R-Bieber ).

District 19: Current Republican Senator Rosilicie Ochoa Bogh ( R-Yucaipa ) was re-elected with nearly a 35,000 vote margin.

District 23: Former Republican Assemblywoman Suzette Valladares ( R-Santa Clarita) was elected to replace outgoing Senator Scott Wilk ( R-Santa Clarita) with nearly a 17,000 vote margin.

District 37: Former Republican Assemblyman Dr. Steven Choi ( R-Irvine ) ousted incumbent Democrat Senator Josh Newman ( D-Fullerton) with over a 6,200 vote margin. This marks the first time in 44 years that Senate Republicans flipped a seat against an incumbent Democrat in a Presidential General Election, when Republican John T. Doolittle defeated Democrat State Senator Albert S. Rodda in 1980.

“Not only did Senate Republicans hold two targeted seats that favored Democrats, we also flipped Orange County, marking the first time in 44 YEARS that Senate Republicans unseated a Democrat incumbent in a Presidential General Election,” continued Leader Jones. “We warmly welcome our new Senators Suzette Valladares, Megan Dahle, and Dr. Steven Choi, and welcome back Senator Rosilicie Ochoa Bogh to the Republican Caucus. We are excited to have them join us in the fight to Fix California.”

In addition to several Senate Republican victories, voters overwhelmingly rejected Democrat-backed efforts on ballot initiatives, most notably by passing Proposition 36 and rejecting Proposition 5.

“Prop 36 passed by a landslide in California, ushering in a new era where crime is illegal and criminals are held accountable. Additionally, voters rejected Proposition 5 by a wide margin, standing firm against Sacramento Democrats’ attempt to raise property taxes. These victories underscore just how out of touch Gavin Newsom and Sacramento Democrats are with the challenges everyday Californians face. Not only did they put Prop 5 on the ballot and oppose Prop 36, but they actively sought to interfere in a fair election and remove Prop 36 from the ballot altogether."

“Voters also threw out liberal District Attorneys in Alameda County (Pamela Price) and Los Angeles County (George Gascon), and unseated left-wing San Francisco Mayor London Breed.

“These overwhelming results should serve as a stark wake up call in dealing with the skyrocketing crime and affordability crises, and the need for stronger, more effective leadership. Despite the best efforts of Democrat politicians to stop us, Senate Republicans and California voters are FIXING CALIFORNIA,” concluded Leader Jones.

Capitol Office

1021 O Street, Room 7640 Sacramento, CA 95814 Phone: (916) 651-4040 Fax: (916) 651-4940

Scripps Ranch Office

10650 Treena Street #110 San Diego, CA 92131 Phone: (858) 547-3818

Escondido Office

720 N. Broadway, Suite 110 Escondido, CA 92025 Phone: (760) 796-4655

facebook Facebook

twitter Twitter

instagram Instagram

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

Home

About Brian Biography

Biography

Legislation My Legislation Committees Bill Search

My Legislation

Committees

Bill Search

Newsroom Releases/Editorials In The News Audio/Video Are You Kidding Me? Photos Media Kit

Releases/Editorials

In The News

Audio/Video

Are You Kidding Me?

Photos

Media Kit

Contact Me Certificate Request District Internship Program District Map E-mail the Senator Legislative Proposal My Offices Subscribe to the Mailing List

Certificate Request

District Internship Program

District Map

E-mail the Senator

Legislative Proposal

My Offices

Subscribe to the Mailing List

Leader Jones Celebrates Major Senate Republican Victory in 2024 Election

More News

ICYMI

View All

Breadcrumb

Aug 6
California Republicans’ Growing Impact on Social Media
Jul 16
Leader Jones Stands on Steps of the Capitol Opposing the Anti-Charter School Bill
Jul 16
AB 84 Charter Schools Press Conference
Jul 15
Leader Jones Demands Accountability on Dangerous Sexually Violent Predator Program

Jun 17
2025
$8-a-gallon gas? Senate Minority Leader Brian W. Jones requests audit of gas price hikes
Jun 9
2025
Nixed bill could have prevented LA unrest, California minority leader says
Jun 8
2025
California lawmaker warns Menendez brothers' case is driving return of bill to release thousands of killers
Jun 3
2025
Ramona nonprofit, resident recognized with Senate District 40 awards