Today, Senate Minority Leader Brian W. Jones ( R-San Diego ) announced the introduction of his Senate Bill 356 to ensure that commissioners at the Board of Parole Hearings are provided with all pertinent information, including graphic photos of the crime when considering the release of inmates. The measure will also ensure that crime victims and their families can have all evidence considered prior to their perpetrator’s release. Click here to read the bill’s fact sheet.

“Parole commissioners are, quite literally, making life and death decisions on behalf of our communities when they consider releasing criminals back onto our streets. There is no excuse for them to be ill-equipped or have important information hidden from them in that decision making process,” said Leader Jones. “Excluding photographs deemed by unelected bureaucrats as ‘graphic’ is absurd. If the crime was graphic, the photos would be graphic too, but that doesn’t mean they shouldn’t be included. In fact, it speaks to why these commissions absolutely should see them.”

In January 2024, the Board arbitrarily enacted a policy that precluded the files presented to commissioners from containing “graphic” images. These excluded images can include crime scene photos, photographs of the victims after an assault, graphic images of children, and other images that could impact a commissioner's understanding of the original crime committed.

“This is commonsense policy that needs to be implemented immediately and I see it as righting a wrong that’s occurred,” said Jones. “If criminals and their advocates don’t want the parole board to see the heinous and graphic acts they committed, then they shouldn’t have committed them. It really is that simple.”

Senate Bill 356 will repeal the new Board policy and preclude the Board from instituting the same or similar policies in the future that discriminate against victims and their families and unfairly and unwittingly bias parole commissioners in favor of criminals seeking release.

The bill is sponsored by San Diego County District Attorney Summer Stephan. The measure is awaiting assignment to a Senate policy committee for a hearing.

Capitol Office

1021 O Street, Room 7640 Sacramento, CA 95814 Phone: (916) 651-4040 Fax: (916) 651-4940

Scripps Ranch Office

10650 Treena Street #110 San Diego, CA 92131 Phone: (858) 547-3818

Escondido Office

720 N. Broadway, Suite 110 Escondido, CA 92025 Phone: (760) 796-4655

facebook Facebook

twitter Twitter

instagram Instagram

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

Home

About Brian Biography

Biography

Legislation My Legislation Committees Bill Search

My Legislation

Committees

Bill Search

Newsroom Releases/Editorials In The News Audio/Video Are You Kidding Me? Photos Media Kit

Releases/Editorials

In The News

Audio/Video

Are You Kidding Me?

Photos

Media Kit

Contact Me Certificate Request District Internship Program District Map E-mail the Senator Legislative Proposal My Offices Subscribe to the Mailing List

Certificate Request

District Internship Program

District Map

E-mail the Senator

Legislative Proposal

My Offices

Subscribe to the Mailing List

Leader Jones introduces legislation to protect crime victims in parole process

More News

ICYMI

View All

Breadcrumb

Aug 6
California Republicans’ Growing Impact on Social Media
Jul 16
Leader Jones Stands on Steps of the Capitol Opposing the Anti-Charter School Bill
Jul 16
AB 84 Charter Schools Press Conference
Jul 15
Leader Jones Demands Accountability on Dangerous Sexually Violent Predator Program

Jun 17
2025
$8-a-gallon gas? Senate Minority Leader Brian W. Jones requests audit of gas price hikes
Jun 9
2025
Nixed bill could have prevented LA unrest, California minority leader says
Jun 8
2025
California lawmaker warns Menendez brothers' case is driving return of bill to release thousands of killers
Jun 3
2025
Ramona nonprofit, resident recognized with Senate District 40 awards