In a letter delivered today to Governor Newsom, Senate Minority Leader Brian W. Jones (R- San Diego) called for the Governor’s immediate signature of Assembly Bill 112 . AB 112 would establish the Distressed Hospital Loan Program and the Distressed Hospital Loan Program Fund, which are designed to provide interest-free cash flow loans for nonprofit and public hospitals.

“Californians who are losing and at risk of losing access to their hospitals cannot afford any more inaction from the Newsom Administration,” said Leader Jones. “The clock is ticking for distressed hospitals that are holding on by a financial shoestring. Additionally, these funds may allow Madera Community Hospital to reopen. The Governor missed an opportunity to step in when the Attorney General failed on Madera, but here’s a second chance to do the right thing.”

One in five hospitals in California is at risk of closure, including hospitals in Visalia, Placerville, Porterville, Hollister, Bakersfield, Montebello, Humboldt County, all of Imperial County, and pockets of Los Angeles. Without immediate action from the state, millions of Californians are at risk of losing access to hospitals and emergency care.

In a recent opinion piece originally published in the Fresno Bee, Leader Jones slammed Democrat politicians’, specifically Attorney General Bonta’s, incompetence on the matter. He concluded his column with a statement that holds true on AB 112: “If we don’t prioritize health-care access, we can’t provide health care. Let’s fix our broken system, take the AG’s politics out of health care, and protect patients throughout California.”

A survey in the news today, courtesy of CalMatters reporting, outlines the severity of the Madera Hospital Closure and the communities most affected. As the story explains, “A new community survey shows that Punjabi Sikh residents and farmworkers from indigenous backgrounds are particularly affected by the closure of the Madera Community Hospital.”

The survey further shows that the closure is leaving residents of the area with very real consequences, including:

60% of residents had to travel to Fresno to receive their healthcare.

About 15% of residents did not know where to go to receive care.

52% of farmworkers say they don’t have a reliable way to get to the next hospital.

While AB 112 is a good step in the right direction, California Senate Republicans have introduced Senate Bill 774 , the “Save Our Hospitals” bill. SB 774 would help ensure that another hospital is not forced to close because of the California Attorney General’s political interests. Specifically, the bill prohibits the California Attorney General from putting conditions on hospital mergers, partnerships, or agreements that would:

Limit or restrict the normal operations of the hospital, such as entering into contracts or setting rates.

Have an adverse effect on the financial condition of the continued operation of the hospital; and

Impose political conditions targeted at the hospital which were not required in similar mergers in the past.

Capitol Office

1021 O Street, Room 7640 Sacramento, CA 95814 Phone: (916) 651-4040 Fax: (916) 651-4940

Scripps Ranch Office

10650 Treena Street #110 San Diego, CA 92131 Phone: (858) 547-3818

Escondido Office

720 N. Broadway, Suite 110 Escondido, CA 92025 Phone: (760) 796-4655

facebook Facebook

twitter Twitter

instagram Instagram

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

Home

About Brian Biography

Biography

Legislation My Legislation Committees Bill Search

My Legislation

Committees

Bill Search

Newsroom Releases/Editorials In The News Audio/Video Are You Kidding Me? Photos Media Kit

Releases/Editorials

In The News

Audio/Video

Are You Kidding Me?

Photos

Media Kit

Contact Me Certificate Request District Internship Program District Map E-mail the Senator Legislative Proposal My Offices Subscribe to the Mailing List

Certificate Request

District Internship Program

District Map

E-mail the Senator

Legislative Proposal

My Offices

Subscribe to the Mailing List

Leader Jones Urges Immediate Signature of Loan Bill for Distressed Hospitals

More News

ICYMI

View All

Breadcrumb

Aug 6
California Republicans’ Growing Impact on Social Media
Jul 16
Leader Jones Stands on Steps of the Capitol Opposing the Anti-Charter School Bill
Jul 16
AB 84 Charter Schools Press Conference
Jul 15
Leader Jones Demands Accountability on Dangerous Sexually Violent Predator Program

Jun 17
2025
$8-a-gallon gas? Senate Minority Leader Brian W. Jones requests audit of gas price hikes
Jun 9
2025
Nixed bill could have prevented LA unrest, California minority leader says
Jun 8
2025
California lawmaker warns Menendez brothers' case is driving return of bill to release thousands of killers
Jun 3
2025
Ramona nonprofit, resident recognized with Senate District 40 awards