Today, Senate Minority Leader Brian W. Jones (R-San Diego) announced he sent a letter to the Commissioners on Governor Gavin Newsom’s Board of Parole Hearings, urging them to deny parole for the Santana High School shooter, Charles Andrew Williams , who has served less than half his sentence. Click here to read the letter.

“My wife's brother was a student at Santana High School during the tragedy,” said Leader Jones. “This criminal murdered two students and permanently traumatized the Santee community. I find it inconceivable that Williams would be released before even half his sentence is complete. I’m urging Governor Newsom’s parole board to keep Williams behind bars where he belongs.”

Williams was sentenced to 50 years to life for killing two students and wounding 13 others at Santana High School in Santee, California, on March 5, 2001. Since his conviction, criminal justice reforms under Democrat Governor Jerry Brown give Williams the opportunity to be released early, despite serving less than half his sentence. The parole hearing for Williams is September 10, 2024.

Leader Jones is also circulating a petition against Williams's parole, which has garnered almost 400 signatures since last week. Click here to read and sign the petition.

“If you were a student at the high school during the shooting, I encourage you to sign my petition, participate in the hearing, and urge the parole board not to release the shooter early,” continued Leader Jones. “The victims of this horrific crime deserve justice and the perpetrator should serve his full sentence.”

Below is an excerpt from Leader Jones’s letter :

“…In 2001, Williams opened fire with a weapon at Santana High School, killing two students and wounding 13 others. Beyond these obvious physical injuries and loss of lives, he left an entire high school traumatized and the community of Santee in continuing grief and pain. Having lived in Santee for over 40 years, I have many close friends, neighbors, and community members who were directly impacted by the horrific events that took place that day. Some of the victims have described how they still have nightmares after attending a vigil or corresponding about this topic on social media. Others have said that in public places, they subconsciously look for the exit points, in case something like this were to happen again. These are clear symptoms of trauma that victims are still dealing with today.

What is particularly concerning about this case is that Williams had specifically vowed to “pull a Columbine” when describing to his friends what he planned to do. It goes without saying that the nation was in horrific pain after Columbine, so Williams knew full well the level of horror he wanted to inflict on the students of Santana. His recent claims of remorse, and so-called recognition of the causes and effects and his actions, are simply soundbites he and his lawyer will use to try to con you in the hearing. I urge you not to be fooled...”

Capitol Office

1021 O Street, Room 7640 Sacramento, CA 95814 Phone: (916) 651-4040 Fax: (916) 651-4940

Scripps Ranch Office

10650 Treena Street #110 San Diego, CA 92131 Phone: (858) 547-3818

Escondido Office

720 N. Broadway, Suite 110 Escondido, CA 92025 Phone: (760) 796-4655

facebook Facebook

twitter Twitter

instagram Instagram

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

Home

About Brian Biography

Biography

Legislation My Legislation Committees Bill Search

My Legislation

Committees

Bill Search

Newsroom Releases/Editorials In The News Audio/Video Are You Kidding Me? Photos Media Kit

Releases/Editorials

In The News

Audio/Video

Are You Kidding Me?

Photos

Media Kit

Contact Me Certificate Request District Internship Program District Map E-mail the Senator Legislative Proposal My Offices Subscribe to the Mailing List

Certificate Request

District Internship Program

District Map

E-mail the Senator

Legislative Proposal

My Offices

Subscribe to the Mailing List

Leader Jones Urges Newsom’s Parole Board to Deny Early Release for Santana High School Shooter

More News

ICYMI

View All

Breadcrumb

Aug 6
California Republicans’ Growing Impact on Social Media
Jul 16
Leader Jones Stands on Steps of the Capitol Opposing the Anti-Charter School Bill
Jul 16
AB 84 Charter Schools Press Conference
Jul 15
Leader Jones Demands Accountability on Dangerous Sexually Violent Predator Program

Jun 17
2025
$8-a-gallon gas? Senate Minority Leader Brian W. Jones requests audit of gas price hikes
Jun 9
2025
Nixed bill could have prevented LA unrest, California minority leader says
Jun 8
2025
California lawmaker warns Menendez brothers' case is driving return of bill to release thousands of killers
Jun 3
2025
Ramona nonprofit, resident recognized with Senate District 40 awards