SACRAMENTO –
Today, Legislative Republicans
gathered at the Capitol with law enforcement officials and public safety advocates
to condemn a set of Democrat-sponsored poison pill amendments to a bipartisan public safety bill package. The amendments will automatically repeal the bills in the event that voters approve an initiative rolling back Prop. 47, forcing concerned voters into a false choice between the ballot measure and legislative efforts to make California safer.
The amendments would also allow Democrat Attorney General Rob Bonta to revise the initiative’s title and summary with biased language designed to deceive voters into opposing the initiative. Just yesterday,
Bonta’s office refused to commit
to writing an honest title and summary that doesn’t mislead voters based on Democrats’ amendments.
“Democrats have reached a new low with their dishonesty and deception on these efforts to improve public safety,” said Assembly Republican Leader James Gallagher
(R-Yuba City)
. “Californians are fed up with Democrats’ pro-criminal policies turning our streets into a war zone. Not a single person believes Democrats are serious about fighting retail theft – they’re just serious about dodging responsibility for it.”
Homelessness has shot up nearly 60% from 2014 to 2023, and out of control retail theft continues to damage small businesses and drive up costs for consumers.
“This is a prime example of California Democrats’ corrupt, closed-door politics at its worst,” said Senate Minority Leader Brian W. Jones
(R-San Diego).
“Jamming poison pill amendments into bipartisan measures is not just pure political gamesmanship, it’s cynical and it’s anti-democracy. Democrats are too prideful to admit their mistake with Prop 47 and are now trying to manipulate voters into a false choice. There is no reason why we can’t have both a pragmatic series of bills and voter-led reforms to tackle crime.”
“Despite being labeled as ‘the Safe Neighborhoods and Schools Act,’ Proposition 47 has failed to protect our communities and businesses,” said Senator Roger Niello (
R-Fair Oaks)
. “It is crucial that we fix the public safety problems by holding criminals accountable and making our communities safer. The Democratic leadership is trying to confuse the public about this important ballot initiative that would result in stronger penalties for drug- and theft-related crimes. Californians deserve a fair and honest path to reform, not political deception that endangers our communities.”
Legislative Democrats are more interested in scoring political points than implementing practical solutions—even at the cost of their own legislation. This cynical attempt to undermine voters puts the public at risk and disregards a historic bipartisan effort to pass important legislation.
Video of the event is available
HERE
Photos of the event are available
HERE
###