SACRAMENTO – Today, Legislative Republicans sent a letter to Governor Gavin Newsom calling on him to convene a special session of the Legislature to address the devastating impacts of wildfires and the growing instability in California’s insurance market. In the letter, the Republican lawmakers highlight the urgent need to safeguard communities, stabilize the insurance market and implement wildfire prevention measures.
The tragedy unfolding in Southern California is heartbreaking, and our prayers are with the victims, their families and our brave first responders. Californians need action to fight these fires, stabilize our insurance markets, and ensure no community is left to face this devastation alone
,” said
Assembly Republican Leader James Gallagher
(Yuba City). “
We’re calling on the governor to step up and bring lawmakers together in a special session to deliver real solutions
The heartbreaking LA fires require an immediate and unified focus by all state officials, and the Legislature
,” said
Senate Minority Leader Brian W. Jones
(R-San Diego). “
A special session will help expedite any needed reviews, recovery efforts and changes in state law to help prevent such horrific tragedies in the future
Having personally experienced the devastation of a massive wildfire, I deeply empathize with the families in Southern California facing this crisis. Immediate action is critical. California families deserve more than empty promises—they deserve real solutions to the devastating wildfires threatening our communities
,” said
Assemblyman David Tangipa
(R-Clovis). “
It’s time to prioritize the safety and well-being of Californians. We urge our colleagues to stand with us and take meaningful action now
The fires in Southern California are a tragedy and we pray for the victims and their families
,” said
Senator Shannon Grove
(R-Bakersfield). “
Lawmakers have the tool of a special session for urgent situations just like this. These disasters cannot continue to threaten the security of Californians. If the majority party wants to ‘meet the moment,’ now is the time
The letter outlines six key priorities for the proposed session:
Expedited Permitting for Wildfire Prevention Projects
– Fast-track critical measures like controlled burns and post-fire reconstruction to mitigate risk effectively.
Streamlined Environmental Reviews for Fire Safety Initiatives
– Targeted reforms to CEQA for key prevention projects, such as undergrounding powerlines and creating emergency escape routes.
Enhanced Criminal Penalties for Fire-Related Crimes
– Strengthen consequences for arson, looting, and negligent fires.
Incentives for Home Hardening
– Provide tax credits, grants, and loans to help residents protect their homes against wildfires.
Increased Wildfire Prevention Funding
– Direct more resources to local governments and conservation districts for prevention and safety.
Insurance Market Transparency and Reform
– Stabilize the insurance market and evaluate policies to attract private insurers back to California.
The letter emphasizes that California’s wildfire and insurance crises are unprecedented and require an extraordinary response. It also points to the growing financial risk posed by the California FAIR Plan and the limited funding currently allocated for wildfire prevention. Legislative Republicans are committed to providing Californians with the tools and policies needed to rebuild and recover.
###