Did you know that a multitude of groups record the votes of state legislators in California on issues each group deems important and then rank each legislator based on those votes?  A wide variety of interest groups, think tanks, partisan groups and nonprofits produce and publish these online “legislative scorecards.”

Some scorecards focus on specific issues, while others are broader in their scope. Many of the scorecards are overtly partisan, some less so. In California, the scorecards generally focus more on agendas than single issues, with only a few number of bills- usually the most controversial ones- selected for evaluation out of the bills within their space.

The groups making the scorecards cull through all the bills introduced by the deadline to submit bill requests (late-January), select the bills they deem important to support or oppose, and then track all the votes taken on those bills as they wend their way through the yearlong legislative process of committee and floor votes.

Additions and deletions to the list occur throughout the year based on amendments made to a bill or sometimes due to a tricky process called a “gut-and-amend” – taking a legislator’s bill, stripping it of its content, and then inserting completely new content.  Gut-and-amends are not common and generally are considered a hostile power play.

An example of such a tactic occurred earlier this year, when a Republican Assemblymember’s bill to eliminate the state gas tax was bottled up in a committee by the committee chair.  Democrats didn’t want to give the bill a hearing, period.  Then, abruptly, the bill was taken up in committee, only to be faced with a proposed amendment to strip its existing language and instead make it a bill creating a new tax on oil companies – a move that ultimately would have increasedgasoline prices.  The author of the bill refused to allow his bill to be amended in that manner, so the committee then voted to kill the bill.  Pure partisan games.

Below are some legislative scorecards from some of the most well-known and active advocacy groups in California.  The link will take you to each group’s most recent scorecard.

Groups taking a generally conservative viewpoint:

American Conservative Union

California Chamber of Commerce

Civil Justice Association of California

Howard Jarvis Taxpayers Association

National Federation of Independent Business

Public employee union scorecards:

California Federation of Teachers

California Labor Federation

California Teachers Association

United Domestic Workers of America (UDW) Home Care Providers Union (home care providers union)

Groups taking a generally liberal viewpoint:

ACLU (American Civil Liberties Union)

California Environmental Justice Alliance – focused on civil justice issues

California Environmental Voters

California Planning and Conservation League

California YIMBY Education Fund

Equality California – focused on LGBTQ issues

Health Access California

NARAL Pro-Choice California

Planned Parenthood Affiliates of California

The People's Report Card of California – focuses on a compilation of bills from “over 100 progressive advocacy groups throughout California.”

Sierra Club California

Groups looking at issues based on a specific topic:

California Food and Farming Network – focused on “policy that will support a healthy, just and resilient agriculture and food system.”

Disability Rights California

I hope this provides you useful information that will help keep you informed about the issues – and how your elected officials in Sacramento are voting on them.

Capitol Office

1021 O Street, Room 7220 Sacramento, CA 95814 Phone: (916) 651-4019 Fax: (916) 651-4919

Redlands Office

1758 Orange Tree Lane, Suite B Redlands, CA 92374 Phone: (909) 335-0271 Fax: (909) 335-0282

facebook Facebook

twitter Twitter

instagram Instagram

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

Home

About Rosilicie My Legislation Current Legislation Legislative Accomplishments 2024 Legislative Accomplishments 2023 Legislative Accomplishments 2022-21 Bill Search Committees Biography

My Legislation Current Legislation Legislative Accomplishments 2024 Legislative Accomplishments 2023 Legislative Accomplishments 2022-21 Bill Search

Current Legislation

Legislative Accomplishments 2024

Legislative Accomplishments 2023

Legislative Accomplishments 2022-21

Bill Search

Committees

Biography

District District Map Virtual Insurance Town Hall Virtual PSPS Town Hall Wildfire Resources

District Map

Virtual Insurance Town Hall

Virtual PSPS Town Hall

Wildfire Resources

Newsroom Releases/Editorials

Releases/Editorials

Contact Me Constituent Services E-mail the Senator Look Ahead Mobile Office Hours My Offices State Agencies Subscribe

Constituent Services

E-mail the Senator

Look Ahead

Mobile Office Hours

My Offices

State Agencies

Subscribe

Legislative Scorecards in CA

Breadcrumb