SACRAMENTO – Today, Assembly Republican Leader James Gallagher (R-Yuba City) and Senate Minority Leader Brian Jones (R-San Diego) condemned antisemitic protests that have disrupted the final weeks of the semester at colleges and universities around California and called on campuses to restore order so students can resume their educations. In recent weeks, anti-Israel protesters have seized campus buildings and quads on multiple campuses, blocked Jewish students from attending classes, assaulted a journalist and disrupted preparations for final exams and graduation ceremonies.
Administrators have done nothing for days or even weeks and allowed protests to escalate into lawlessness and violence. Throughout the process, Democrat officials including Gov. Newsom have failed to address the issue, putting the safety of students and the larger community at risk.
“Enough is enough. It’s time to stop enabling the radicals who think they are entitled to take over public spaces and stop people from getting an education,”
said Leader Gallagher.
“The harassment and intimidation of Jewish students that has been allowed to fester on our campuses marks a complete failure of leadership. It’s time to end the lawlessness. The governor has been nowhere. Those who are committing acts of violence and blockading other students from going to class need to be suspended with real consequences. Let them to be arrested and prosecuted, stop canceling school as the answer.”
“The First Amendment guarantees your right to petition your government, it does not guarantee you the right to interfere with the free expression or freedom of assembly of others,”
said Leader Jones.
“Actions involving illegal activities including erecting illegal encampments, blockading entrances, vandalizing property, obstructing campus access, holding individuals hostage, or instigating violence, harassment, and intimidation are not protected by free speech, but are criminal offenses. Perpetrators must face immediate accountability such as suspension and arrest. Antisemitism in any form is unacceptable. College campuses must ensure a safe environment for all, regardless of their beliefs.”
Senator Brian W. Jones represents the 40th Senate District which includes the Cities of Escondido, Poway, San Marcos, Santee, San Diego City communities of Carmel Mountain Ranch, Mira Mesa, Rancho Bernardo, Rancho Peñasquitos, Scripps Ranch, Sorrento Valley, and University City, along with the San Diego County unincorporated communities of 4S Ranch, Alpine, Bonsall, Fallbrook, Lakeside, Pine Valley, Rainbow, Ramona, and Valley Center.
###