All too often‚ it can seem like Sacramento just doesn’t listen to the voice of the people. I’m happy to celebrate when loud voices force them to back down on a bad idea.

The California Fish and Game Commission was set to consider a rule requiring permits to hunt or trap coyotes—a rule that would have made it even harder for farmers‚ ranchers‚ and homeowners to protect their animals. Coyotes have always been a “non-game species“ under state law‚ and adding more red tape would have been a disaster for those dealing with livestock losses and backyard attacks.

The California Department of Fish and Wildlife has thrown up many more hurdles in the path to obtain a “depredation permit“ to control other predators in recent years‚ costing property owners much more time and money when they simply want to protect their own animals. We don’t need to make it even harder.

What’s more‚ the Commission was ready to take up this idea after holding initial meetings with barely any public notice. Our open-government laws are clear that the public must be informed and have a chance to speak up before these important decisions are made. That just didn’t happen here‚ and that’s a key reason Assemblywoman Heather Hadwick and I wrote a letter to the Commission saying they needed to pull the item off their agenda. On Wednesday‚ the Commission did just that.

I appreciate the farmers‚ ranchers‚ hunting groups and others who also spoke up against this misguided policy. Together‚ we made Sacramento listen.

Let’s keep fighting together.

Megan Dahle Senator‚ 1st District

Capitol

Redding Office

1320 Yuba Street, Suite 102 Redding, CA 96001 Phone: (530) 224-7001

Chico Office

2635 Forest Avenue, Suite 110 Chico, CA 95928 Phone: (530) 879-7424

Grass Valley Office

120 N. Auburn Street, Suite 214 Grass Valley, CA 95945 Phone: (530) 271-7412

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

<d

Home

About Megan Biography Committees District Map

Biography

Committees

District Map

Legislation Prior Legislation Bill Search

Prior Legislation

Bill Search

Contact Me Email the Senator My Offices Scheduling Requests Subscribe

Email the Senator

My Offices

Scheduling Requests

Subscribe

Legislators‚ Farmers‚ Hunters Stop Misguided Coyote Rule

Breadcrumb