Senator Shannon Grove is revved up to announce that Senate Bill 712, also known as Leno’s Law, passed out of the Assembly Transportation Committee yesterday. Sponsored by legendary comedian and automotive collector Jay Leno, this legislation would exempt more classic vehicles from outdated smog check requirements, preserving California’s rich automotive culture for future generations.

With the new amendments from the Assembly Transportation Committee, the bill will provide a gradual expansion of the biennial smog check exemption, by adding an additional 10 vehicle model years from 1976 to 1986 over a 5-year period. To qualify for the full exemption, the vehicles must also have a historical license plate and hold collector motor vehicle insurance. The program created by Leno's Law is entirely optional.

“For over two decades, classic car enthusiasts have worked alongside legislators to try and expand the number of classic vehicles eligible for a full smog check exemption, but every effort has stalled before making it through the legislature” said Senator Shannon Grove . “If Leno’s Law is passed and signed, even if it is not exactly what we originally wanted, it provides 10 additional vehicle model years and is a step towards protecting classic cars as a part of our history.”

“I will continue to amplify the voices of collectors who simply want to enjoy restoring and driving their vehicles on special occasions, ensuring it’s a reasonable process to preserve California’s iconic automotive heritage,” added Senator Grove.

“In California, change usually happens slowly, and this bill is real progress toward protecting classic cars as part of our history,” concluded Senator Grove.

﻿ The committee amendments for the bill will be in print later this week here .

Capitol Office

1021 O Street, Room 7150 Sacramento, CA 95814 Phone: (916) 651-4012 Fax: (916) 651-4916

Bakersfield Office

5701 Truxtun Ave., Suite 150 Bakersfield, CA 93309 Phone: (661) 323-0443 Fax: (661) 323-0446

Fresno Office

567 W. Shaw Ave., Suite A-3 Fresno, CA 93704 Phone:  559-243-8580

facebook Facebook

twitter Twitter

instagram Instagram

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

Home

About Shannon Biography Committees 12th Senate District Map

Biography

Committees

12th Senate District Map

Legislation My Legislation Bill Search Submit a Legislative Proposal

My Legislation

Bill Search

Submit a Legislative Proposal

Newsroom Releases / Editorials Photos

Releases / Editorials

Photos

Resources California Senate Fellows Program Coronavirus Information Education Register to Vote Unclaimed Property Veteran Resources

California Senate Fellows Program

Coronavirus Information

Education

Register to Vote

Unclaimed Property

Veteran Resources

Contact me My Offices E-mail the Senator Subscribe

My Offices

E-mail the Senator

Subscribe

Leno’s Law passes major checkpoint in Assembly Transportation Committee

More News

View All

Breadcrumb

Aug 29
Senator Shannon Grove Celebrates Advancement of Key Bills for Special Education and Rural Healthcare, Expresses Disappointment Over Scrapping of Leno’s Law
Aug 27
VIDEO: Celebrity advocate Paris Hilton calls for passage of child protection measure ahead of key vote
Aug 25
Senator Shannon Grove and Assemblyman David Tangipa  Honor Retired NFL Quarterback, Derek Carr
Aug 21
Senator Shannon Grove opposes Democrats' attempt to override the will of California voters