SACRAMENTO
Today Assemblyman Josh Hoover (R-Folsom) announced the
passage of a California budget bill that secured $425,000 to the City of Folsom
Parks & Recreation Department for the Johnny Cash Trail Art Experience –
Cash’s Pick No. 2.
Folsom’s Johnny Cash Trail, a bike and pedestrian trail that
borders Folsom State Prison, was completed in 2017. Folsom Parks &
Recreation is currently fundraising to install a world-class linear public art
experience that will celebrate and honor the legendary Johnny Cash, his music,
and his strong connection to the City of Folsom. As part of the public art
project, installments at the beginning and end of the trail will feature
“Cash’s Pick”, 7 foot tall bronze guitar picks. The funding secured by
Assemblyman Hoover will be used for the design and fabrication of Cash’s Pick
No. 2. The first pick is currently slated to be installed by early 2024.
“I am excited to announce significant state funding for the
Johnny Cash Trail Art Experience in Folsom,” said Assemblyman Hoover. “These
investments will be an amazing benefit for the residents in our community and
will bring this amazing city landmark one step closer to fruition for visitors
to enjoy.”
“The City of Folsom extends its heartfelt gratitude to
Assemblyman Josh Hoover for securing substantial state funding to bolster the
Johnny Cash Trail Art Experience”, said City of Folsom Mayor Rosario Rodriguez.
“This remarkable contribution will financially support Cash’s Pick No. 2,
marking a significant milestone in the city’s efforts to install a world-class
public art experience to celebrate and honor the legendary Johnny Cash, his
music, and his connection to the City of Folsom. Just as Cash’s iconic career
started with a humble guitar pick, soon, every walk, run, and ride on the
Johnny Cash trail will begin with Cash’s iconic Pick. Each month, thousands
enjoy the trail and its surrounding natural beauty, while enjoying the benefits
of exercise. Thanks to this generous support, we can now integrate additional
public art into the fabric of the Johnny Cash Trail, further enriching the
experience for all who traverse it.”
Josh Hoover represents Assembly District 7, which includes the cities of Citrus Heights, Folsom, and Rancho Cordova and the unincorporated communities of Carmichael, Fair Oaks, Foothill Farms, Gold River, Mather, McClellan Park, North Highlands, Orangevale, and Rosemont.