The family of two young men who were brutally attacked by a mountain lion in El Dorado County is taking action and heading to Sacramento to fight for justice for their slain son. One year after the tragic mountain lion attack that claimed 21-year-old Taylen Brooks' life and left his brother Wyatt severely injured, the Brooks family wants to honor their son’s life and advocate for stronger public safety measures to prevent such a tragedy from happening again in California.

The family will join Senator Marie Alvarado-Gil ( R-Jackson ) in supporting Senate Bill 818 (SB 818), known as "Taylen and Wyatt’s Law." The bill will be heard in the Senate Natural Resources and Water Committee on Tuesday, April 22 at 9:00am in State Capitol Room 113 . SB 818 establishes a pilot program in El Dorado County allowing permitted houndsmen to non-lethally pursue and haze mountain lions deemed a threat, with the goal of reducing attacks on people, pets, and livestock while restoring lions’ natural fear of humans.

Immediately following the hearing, the Brooks family, Senator Alvarado-Gil, and El Dorado County Sheriff Jeff Leikauf will hold a media availability outside the hearing room.

WHO:

Senator Marie Alvarado-Gil

El Dorado County Sheriff Jeff Leikauf

Malcolm Brooks (Uncle of Taylen Brooks)

Aaron Brooks (Father of Taylen Brooks)

Wyatt Brooks (Brother of Taylen Brooks)

WHAT : Family of Taylen Brooks in Sacramento to honor his life one year after he was killed in a mountain lion attack. Support for Sen. Marie Alvarado-Gil’s public safety bill, SB 818, “Taylen and Wyatt’s Law.”

WHEN and WHERE:

Tuesday, April 22

9:00 AM – SB 818 Hearing, Senate Natural Resources and Water Committee, State Capitol, Room 113. Watch the hearing LIVESTREAM here .

Immediately after hearing – Media availability outside State Capitol Room 113 with the Brooks family, Senator Alvarado-Gil, and El Dorado County Sheriff Jeff Leikauf. (Watch LIVESTREAM here )

Capitol

Modesto

1020 15th Street, Ste 21 Modesto, CA 95354 Phone: (209) 576-6001

El Dorado Hills

4364 Town Center Blvd, Suite 313 El Dorado Hills, CA 95762 Phone: (916) 933-8680

Privacy Policy

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

<d

Home

About Marie Biography District Map

Biography

District Map

Legislation Bill Search

Bill Search

Newsroom Press Releases Op-Eds

Press Releases

Op-Eds

Contact Me District Offices Email the Senator Scheduling Requests State Resources Subscribe

District Offices

Email the Senator

Scheduling Requests

State Resources

Subscribe

Media Advisory: One year after fatal mountain lion attack, family of Taylen Brooks heads to Sacramento to demand stronger public safety

Breadcrumb