Who?

Senate Minority Leader Brian W. Jones ( R-San Diego )

Senator Rosilicie Ochoa Bogh ( R-Yucaipa)

Riverside County Sheriff Chad Bianco

San Diego County Supervisor Joel Anderson

San Diego County Deputy Sheriffs’ Association

El Cajon Mayor Bills Wells

Vista Mayor John Franklin

San Marcos City Councilman Ed Musgrove

Sharie Finn, Mother of a Survivor, Child Welfare Advocate, Founder of The RAD Movement

Amy Reichert, Founder of Restore San Diego

Additional San Diego Community Activists

What?

At the press conference, Jones will announce the introduction of his new legislation, "Safety Before Criminal Sanctuary," to overhaul California’s “Sanctuary State” law. Specifically, the bill will prevent local jurisdictions from passing sanctuary city measures stronger than current law ( as seen with the San Diego County Board of Supervisors ), and will require law enforcement to cooperate with ICE for violent offenders and specific crimes.

Where?

San Diego County Administration Building: 1600 Pacific Hwy, San Diego, CA 92101

Click here for a map of the specific location (section 12 on the map).

A live stream of the press conference will be available here .

When?

TOMORROW, Friday, February 21, 2025

Leader Jones will be available for interviews and additional questions after the press conference.

Media interested in an interview with Leader Jones following the press conference, please contact Nina Fisher by email Nina.Fisher@sen.ca.gov .

Why?

SB 54 (De León, 2017) designated California as a sanctuary state, restricting the use of state and local resources for federal immigration enforcement. However, the law included exceptions allowing—though not requiring—local law enforcement to cooperate with ICE for individuals convicted of serious or violent crimes, including those on the Sex and Arson Registry, convicted felons with “serious or violent” charges, or convicted felons punishable by imprisonment in state prison.

San Diego County recently passed an ordinance declaring itself a “Super Sanctuary County,” banning law enforcement from cooperating with ICE for any offense—even those exempted under SB 54—unless a federal warrant is issued. This ordinance makes it easier for undocumented immigrants charged with violent crimes, gang activity, or weapons offenses to return to San Diego County streets. This ordinance not only undermines public safety but also increases the county’s misalignment with federal law.

Leader Jones’s new legislation will overhaul California’s Sanctuary State law and ensure violent offenders are not shielded from federal immigration authorities.

Capitol Office

1021 O Street, Room 7640 Sacramento, CA 95814 Phone: (916) 651-4040 Fax: (916) 651-4940

Scripps Ranch Office

10650 Treena Street #110 San Diego, CA 92131 Phone: (858) 547-3818

Escondido Office

720 N. Broadway, Suite 110 Escondido, CA 92025 Phone: (760) 796-4655

facebook Facebook

twitter Twitter

instagram Instagram

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

Home

About Brian Biography

Biography

Legislation My Legislation Committees Bill Search

My Legislation

Committees

Bill Search

Newsroom Releases/Editorials In The News Audio/Video Are You Kidding Me? Photos Media Kit

Releases/Editorials

In The News

Audio/Video

Are You Kidding Me?

Photos

Media Kit

Contact Me Certificate Request District Internship Program District Map E-mail the Senator Legislative Proposal My Offices Subscribe to the Mailing List

Certificate Request

District Internship Program

District Map

E-mail the Senator

Legislative Proposal

My Offices

Subscribe to the Mailing List

**MEDIA ADVISORY: TOMORROW, Friday, February 21 @ 10am**

More News

ICYMI

View All

Breadcrumb

Aug 6
California Republicans’ Growing Impact on Social Media
Jul 16
Leader Jones Stands on Steps of the Capitol Opposing the Anti-Charter School Bill
Jul 16
AB 84 Charter Schools Press Conference
Jul 15
Leader Jones Demands Accountability on Dangerous Sexually Violent Predator Program

Jun 17
2025
$8-a-gallon gas? Senate Minority Leader Brian W. Jones requests audit of gas price hikes
Jun 9
2025
Nixed bill could have prevented LA unrest, California minority leader says
Jun 8
2025
California lawmaker warns Menendez brothers' case is driving return of bill to release thousands of killers
Jun 3
2025
Ramona nonprofit, resident recognized with Senate District 40 awards