SACRAMENTO – The California Department of Developmental Services released a long-awaited study last Friday evening regarding payments for services for persons with developmental disabilities. The study indicates that if provider rates are set fairly, the state would need to increase the budget by more than $1.8 billion dollars to provide adequate services for this community.

Prior to the rate study release, Senate Republican Leader Shannon Grove ( R-Bakersfield ) delivered a letter from all Senate Republicans to the Chairs of the Senate and Assembly Budget Committees requesting several budget actions. One of the requests included an 8 percent across-the-board payment rate increase as a down payment for providers who serve the developmentally disabled community. Advocates and stakeholders agree there is a need for a transitional rate increase in this budget to sustain services while the state determines how to implement the larger rate study, including improved accountability and transparency.

“The recent rate study supports Senate Republicans’ request to place a higher priority for persons with developmental disabilities and their families. The state made a promise to serve this community, but that promise falls short if we do not provide enough money for necessary services.

“My colleagues and I stand united in advocating for some of California’s most vulnerable population. With an anticipated $21 billion surplus in the state budget, let’s do the right thing. The developmentally disabled community deserves better,” said Leader Grove.

More than four decades ago, Republicans pushed for legislation that would help developmentally disabled people pursue their own goals and thrive in communities of their own choosing.  Named after a Republican statesman, Frank Lanterman, and signed by Governor Ronald Reagan, the Lanterman Developmental Disabilities Services Act outlined the rights for persons with developmental disabilities and their families.

Media can read more about the letter from the Senate Republican Caucus here .

Capitol Office

1021 O Street, Room 7150 Sacramento, CA 95814 Phone: (916) 651-4012 Fax: (916) 651-4916

Bakersfield Office

5701 Truxtun Ave., Suite 150 Bakersfield, CA 93309 Phone: (661) 323-0443 Fax: (661) 323-0446

Fresno Office

567 W. Shaw Ave., Suite A-3 Fresno, CA 93704 Phone:  559-243-8580

facebook Facebook

twitter Twitter

instagram Instagram

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

Home

About Shannon Biography Committees 12th Senate District Map

Biography

Committees

12th Senate District Map

Legislation My Legislation Bill Search Submit a Legislative Proposal

My Legislation

Bill Search

Submit a Legislative Proposal

Newsroom Releases / Editorials Photos

Releases / Editorials

Photos

Resources California Senate Fellows Program Coronavirus Information Education Register to Vote Unclaimed Property Veteran Resources

California Senate Fellows Program

Coronavirus Information

Education

Register to Vote

Unclaimed Property

Veteran Resources

Contact me My Offices E-mail the Senator Subscribe

My Offices

E-mail the Senator

Subscribe

New Rate Study Confirms Republicans' Calls for Increase Funding for Persons with Developmental Disabilities

More News

View All

Breadcrumb

Aug 29
Senator Shannon Grove Celebrates Advancement of Key Bills for Special Education and Rural Healthcare, Expresses Disappointment Over Scrapping of Leno’s Law
Aug 27
VIDEO: Celebrity advocate Paris Hilton calls for passage of child protection measure ahead of key vote
Aug 25
Senator Shannon Grove and Assemblyman David Tangipa  Honor Retired NFL Quarterback, Derek Carr
Aug 21
Senator Shannon Grove opposes Democrats' attempt to override the will of California voters