SACRAMENTO – Senate Republican Leader Shannon Grove (R-Bakersfield) issued the following statement after the governor signed Assembly Bill 5 into law. AB 5 will threaten the livelihoods of many independent contractors in California because it only covers certain industries that were fortunate enough to get a carve-out from Legislative Democrats.

Senate Republicans offered 12 sets of amendments to AB 5 during the last week of session. Exemptions that Senate Republicans proposed to AB 5 included: foresters, health care professionals, physical therapists, interpreters, translators, single truck owner-operators, newspaper carriers and distributors, non-profits, franchisors, franchisees, and designers. Senate Democrats blocked Republicans' efforts to protect the employment status of independent contractors in those industries.

Senate Republican Leader Shannon Grove issued the following statement after AB 5 was signed into law:

"Many Californians will now suffer from a law that plays favorites. Legislative Democrats rejected Senate Republicans’ amendments to AB 5 which would have leveled the playing field for all independent contractors and helped industries that were excluded. Democrats, labor unions, and Governor Newsom, picked winners and losers with AB 5.

“Instead of helping all of these Californians, Democrats supported AB 5, and issued carve outs to industries they considered their friends. A one-size-fits-all approach should not and cannot apply to those who depend on being an independent contractor,” said Senate Republican Leader Shannon Grove.

Capitol Office

1021 O Street, Room 7150 Sacramento, CA 95814 Phone: (916) 651-4012 Fax: (916) 651-4916

Bakersfield Office

5701 Truxtun Ave., Suite 150 Bakersfield, CA 93309 Phone: (661) 323-0443 Fax: (661) 323-0446

Fresno Office

567 W. Shaw Ave., Suite A-3 Fresno, CA 93704 Phone:  559-243-8580

facebook Facebook

twitter Twitter

instagram Instagram

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

Home

About Shannon Biography Committees 12th Senate District Map

Biography

Committees

12th Senate District Map

Legislation My Legislation Bill Search Submit a Legislative Proposal

My Legislation

Bill Search

Submit a Legislative Proposal

Newsroom Releases / Editorials Photos

Releases / Editorials

Photos

Resources California Senate Fellows Program Coronavirus Information Education Register to Vote Unclaimed Property Veteran Resources

California Senate Fellows Program

Coronavirus Information

Education

Register to Vote

Unclaimed Property

Veteran Resources

Contact me My Offices E-mail the Senator Subscribe

My Offices

E-mail the Senator

Subscribe

New Labor Law Will Impact Independent Contractors

More News

View All

Breadcrumb

Aug 29
Senator Shannon Grove Celebrates Advancement of Key Bills for Special Education and Rural Healthcare, Expresses Disappointment Over Scrapping of Leno’s Law
Aug 27
VIDEO: Celebrity advocate Paris Hilton calls for passage of child protection measure ahead of key vote
Aug 25
Senator Shannon Grove and Assemblyman David Tangipa  Honor Retired NFL Quarterback, Derek Carr
Aug 21
Senator Shannon Grove opposes Democrats' attempt to override the will of California voters