Surrounded by his family, Senator-elect Tony Strickland took the Oath of Office today which was administered by Senate Minority Leader Brian W. Jones.

Photo courtesy: California State Senate

Today, the Senate Republican Caucus welcomed its tenth and newest member, Sen. Tony Strickland ( R-Huntington Beach ) who was sworn in this morning on the Senate Floor. Strickland was elected in a special election held on February 25 to fill the vacant seat of Senate District 36.

"I'm bringing surf-city common sense to Sacramento,” said Sen. Strickland . “It is time we get back to basics of governing. We need to be fiscally responsible with hard-earned taxpayers dollars, put public safety first, and invest in our crippling infrastructure. "

Strickland previously served in the Senate and Assembly before taking local elected office on the Huntington Beach City Council. He has listed public safety, tax relief and government accountability as top priorities he seeks to tackle while in office.

“I could not be happier to welcome Senator Strickland to the Senate Republican Caucus,” said Senate Minority Leader Brian W. Jones ( R-San Diego ). “Californians continue to reject the left-wing status quo in Sacramento and are increasingly sending commonsense-driven, pragmatic representatives like Tony Strickland to represent them in the Capitol. I look forward to seeing him in action and working together to fix California.

Senate District 36 includes coastal Orange County, and much or all of the population of the cities of Huntington Beach, Newport Beach, Laguna Beach, Dana Point, San Clemente, Westminster, Los Alamitos, Cypress, La Palma, Cerritos, Buena Park, Garden Grove, and Fountain Valley.

“Orange County will only become stronger with the addition of Sen. Strickland to the Senate,” said Orange County Sen. Steven Choi ( R-Irvine ). “It is with excitement that I welcome him to the Senate and I look forward to fighting together for the people of Southern California.

Click here for remarks from Senator Strickland following his swearing-in.

Capitol

District

3200 El Camino Real, Suite 230 Irvine, CA 92602 Phone: (714) 544-1035

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

<d

Home

About Dr. Choi Biography Committees

Biography

Committees

Legislation

Newsroom Releases / Opinions Important Updates Audio / Video Photo Gallery

Releases / Opinions

Important Updates

Audio / Video

Photo Gallery

Contact Me District Internship Program District Map Email the Senator My Offices

District Internship Program

District Map

Email the Senator

My Offices

Newest state senator, Tony Strickland sworn-in to office

Breadcrumb