Today, Senate Minority Leader Brian Jones ( R-San Diego) sent a follow-up letter to Governor Gavin Newsom requesting immediate action to stop the closure of California’s gasoline refineries. The letter warns that the Governor will not only be responsible, but complicit in an entirely preventable energy crisis that will devastate working Californians. Click here to read the letter.

“For the past three decades, California Democrat politicians have led a crusade against our gasoline suppliers,” said Leader Jones. “And under Governor Newsom, it’s been full steam ahead on a full-fledged attack that’s now driving them to close entirely.”

“Let me paint a picture for you, Governor: we’ll be back in the 1970s gas shortage, where people had assigned days to fill up their tank and waited hours in line. That will be your legacy in California. But, it’s entirely preventable if you act immediately, before the Legislature breaks on July 17, to save our refineries,” continued Leader Jones.

On May 6, 2025, Leader Jones first sounded the alarm in a detailed letter to Governor Newsom, warning about the consequences of closing the Phillips 66 refinery in Los Angeles and the Valero refinery in Benicia, together representing about 20% of California’s in-state gasoline supply. In that letter , Leader Jones respectfully requested a response and offered to help find immediate solutions. To date, Governor Newsom has failed to respond or outline any plan whatsoever for preventing the looming energy crisis.

Leader Jones’ latest letter follows months of warnings from industry experts, repeated warnings from Republican lawmakers, and projections from a USC Marshall School of Business study, which estimates gas prices could skyrocket by as much as 75% to $8.43 per gallon by the end of 2026 if the two refineries close.

Even Governor Newsom’s own California Energy Commission (CEC) is now warning of disaster, writing last week:

“The CEC thinks it is prudent to immediately stabilize in-state supply by working to retain in-state refining capacity while demand persists, and by supporting sufficient imports, storage, and delivery of refined products.”

Yet, Newsom’s Administration has provided no plan to keep either refinery open or prevent further closures that would gut California’s fuel supply, kill thousands of good-paying jobs, and send gas prices soaring past $8 per gallon.

“Newsom is not only responsible, but now complicit,” Leader Jones added . “If these refineries close, it will send an unmistakable message that the shortages and sky-high prices that follow are not just tolerated, they were deliberately planned. Newsom is getting what he always wanted: refinery closures and historic price spikes, paid for by working Californians.”

Leader Jones’ letter calls on the Governor to, for once, admit he was wrong and take immediate action before the Legislature adjourns for summer recess on July 17 to keep California’s refineries open and prevent an avoidable, self-inflicted energy crisis.

Leader Jones has long warned that Governor Newsom’s policies would lead to a self-inflicted gas price crisis. In November 2024, Leader Jones published an op-ed in the San Diego Union-Tribune outlining how Newsom’s attack on our gas supply would force prices higher and squeeze working families. Click here to read the op-ed.

Capitol Office

1021 O Street, Room 7640 Sacramento, CA 95814 Phone: (916) 651-4040 Fax: (916) 651-4940

Scripps Ranch Office

10650 Treena Street #110 San Diego, CA 92131 Phone: (858) 547-3818

Escondido Office

720 N. Broadway, Suite 110 Escondido, CA 92025 Phone: (760) 796-4655

facebook Facebook

twitter Twitter

instagram Instagram

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

Home

About Brian Biography

Biography

Legislation My Legislation Committees Bill Search

My Legislation

Committees

Bill Search

Newsroom Releases/Editorials In The News Audio/Video Are You Kidding Me? Photos Media Kit

Releases/Editorials

In The News

Audio/Video

Are You Kidding Me?

Photos

Media Kit

Contact Me Certificate Request District Internship Program District Map E-mail the Senator Legislative Proposal My Offices Subscribe to the Mailing List

Certificate Request

District Internship Program

District Map

E-mail the Senator

Legislative Proposal

My Offices

Subscribe to the Mailing List

Newsom’s Silence Makes Him Complicit in Upcoming $8 Gas and Refinery Closures

More News

ICYMI

View All

Breadcrumb

Aug 6
California Republicans’ Growing Impact on Social Media
Jul 16
Leader Jones Stands on Steps of the Capitol Opposing the Anti-Charter School Bill
Jul 16
AB 84 Charter Schools Press Conference
Jul 15
Leader Jones Demands Accountability on Dangerous Sexually Violent Predator Program

Jun 17
2025
$8-a-gallon gas? Senate Minority Leader Brian W. Jones requests audit of gas price hikes
Jun 9
2025
Nixed bill could have prevented LA unrest, California minority leader says
Jun 8
2025
California lawmaker warns Menendez brothers' case is driving return of bill to release thousands of killers
Jun 3
2025
Ramona nonprofit, resident recognized with Senate District 40 awards