SACRAMENTO
– Despite repeated warnings from Republicans
and his own administration
that Newsom’s regulations will drive up gas prices, the governor is doubling down on his failed record with a special session to jam yet another half-baked proposal through the Legislature.
Newsom is full steam ahead on his gas storage mandate – even though Californians are still waiting for answers about the cost to drivers of another set of regulations he’s got in the works. It’s been months since
Republican lawmakers called on the Newsom administration to come clean
about how much prices will rise thanks to updates to the Cap-And-Trade program and the Low Carbon Fuel Standard – with no reply.
To highlight the Newsom foot-dragging on the issue, Assembly Republicans are
publishing a timer to track just how long his administration has been covering up the costs of its proposals
“California drivers deal with some of the highest costs in the nation – and Republicans, economists, and the Energy Commission have all warned that Newsom’s schemes will make things even worse,”
said
Assembly Republican Leader James Gallagher
(Yuba City).
“If he really wanted to lower gas prices for Californians, Newsom would stop with the distractions and start with suspending the gas tax and cutting the expensive mandates.”
A 2023 report predicted Newsom’s update to the Low Carbon Fuel Standard could
increase gas prices by more than 50 cents per gallon
. Since then, his administration has walked back that figure, but refuses to give drivers information on the cost of the plan. The Newsom administration is also claiming it can’t predict how much changes to the Cap-And-Trade program will cost at the pump,
despite having done so previously
A report from the California Energy Commission
warned that Newsom’s gas storage mandate could “create shortages in downstream markets” and “ increase average prices,” but again provides no details about the extent of the anticipated price hikes.
Californians deserve honest answers from the Governor and relief at the pump – not sloppy legislative proposals that distract from the real problem: ridiculously high taxes and over-regulation.
The timer can be viewed at
ASMRC.org
– and if the Newsom administration finally comes clean on the cost of its proposals, we’ll be sure to let you know. But don’t hold your breath.
###