Senate Minority Leader Brian W. Jones ( R-San Diego ) issued the following statement this morning after Governor Gavin Newsom announced major rollbacks to his disastrous plan to provide free healthcare to illegal immigrants:

“We warned him,” said Leader Jones. “I urged the governor to immediately freeze his reckless Medi-Cal expansion for illegal immigrants a year and a half ago, before it buried our healthcare system and bankrupted the state. Had he listened, we wouldn’t be in this crisis—breaking promises, scrambling for loans, and cutting services for legal Californians just to keep this broken program afloat.”

In January 2024, Leader Jones sent a letter to Newsom calling for an immediate freeze of the Medi-Cal expansion to illegal immigrants, citing out-of-control costs and unfair impacts on legal residents. Governor Newsom ignored those warnings and refused to take action, despite facing a multi-billion deficit at the time. Now, faced with a staggering $12 billion deficit, the governor is being forced to admit the program is financially unsustainable and is finally reversing course.

“Let’s be clear: Democrats are prioritizing illegal immigrants over citizens,” Leader Jones continued. “With a massive deficit largely driven by this policy, our focus should be on preserving Medi-Cal for those it was originally designed to serve. Even Governor Jerry Brown understood this was a bad idea and refused to go down this path. After seven years of reckless expansions, Newsom is now backtracking to the same position Brown held from the beginning. It’s time to end the political games, immediately freeze this program, and restore Medi-Cal to serve those who are here legally.”

Governor Newsom initially estimated the free healthcare for illegal immigrants program at $3 billion a year. Last year, it ballooned to well over $11 billion and counting, as many predicted would happen. Earlier this year, the governor scrambled to find an extra $6.2 billion to keep the program afloat through June. Californians are paying the price for Newsom’s refusal to face reality. Polling shows that 60% of California voters oppose providing free healthcare for illegal immigrants—yet Newsom chose to push forward anyway.

Even with the new proposed restrictions, including $100 premiums and a freeze on new adult enrollments starting January 2026, Newsom’s actions fall short.

“Gavin-onomics is making irresponsible choices and blaming everyone else for the fallout. Freezing new enrollees at the end of the year is too little, too late. The freeze should be immediate. And to keep this failed program alive, Newsom is now cutting care for legal residents, including support for the developmentally disabled.

"If Newsom hadn’t played politics by expanding this program in the first place, we wouldn’t be staring down a $12 billion deficit. Now he’s scrambling to shift blame—pointing to fires, tariffs, and everything under the sun—when the truth is, this crisis is the direct result of his reckless giveaways to illegal immigrants. It’s outrageous—and he owns this budget crisis,” concluded Leader Jones.

Capitol Office

1021 O Street, Room 7640 Sacramento, CA 95814 Phone: (916) 651-4040 Fax: (916) 651-4940

Scripps Ranch Office

10650 Treena Street #110 San Diego, CA 92131 Phone: (858) 547-3818

Escondido Office

720 N. Broadway, Suite 110 Escondido, CA 92025 Phone: (760) 796-4655

facebook Facebook

twitter Twitter

instagram Instagram

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

Home

About Brian Biography

Biography

Legislation My Legislation Committees Bill Search

My Legislation

Committees

Bill Search

Newsroom Releases/Editorials In The News Audio/Video Are You Kidding Me? Photos Media Kit

Releases/Editorials

In The News

Audio/Video

Are You Kidding Me?

Photos

Media Kit

Contact Me Certificate Request District Internship Program District Map E-mail the Senator Legislative Proposal My Offices Subscribe to the Mailing List

Certificate Request

District Internship Program

District Map

E-mail the Senator

Legislative Proposal

My Offices

Subscribe to the Mailing List

Newsom Finally Adopts Leader Jones’ Plan on Cutting Free Healthcare for Illegal Immigrants

More News

ICYMI

View All

Breadcrumb

Aug 6
California Republicans’ Growing Impact on Social Media
Jul 16
Leader Jones Stands on Steps of the Capitol Opposing the Anti-Charter School Bill
Jul 16
AB 84 Charter Schools Press Conference
Jul 15
Leader Jones Demands Accountability on Dangerous Sexually Violent Predator Program

Jun 17
2025
$8-a-gallon gas? Senate Minority Leader Brian W. Jones requests audit of gas price hikes
Jun 9
2025
Nixed bill could have prevented LA unrest, California minority leader says
Jun 8
2025
California lawmaker warns Menendez brothers' case is driving return of bill to release thousands of killers
Jun 3
2025
Ramona nonprofit, resident recognized with Senate District 40 awards