Today, State Senator Rosilicie Ochoa Bogh ( R-Yucaipa ) and State Assemblymember Greg Wallis ( R-Bermuda Dunes ) urged California’s Air Resources Board Chair Liane Randolph to postpone an impending vote on changes to its Low-Carbon Fuel Standard (LCFS) program until CARB discloses the actual costs and benefits of those proposed changes to the public. The letter is signed by 25 total Republican legislators including all members of the Senate Republican Caucus.

CARB plans to vote on the proposed changes at its November 7-8 meeting. Those changes as currently proposed will drastically drive up fuel prices.

In a letter to Randolph , both Ochoa Bogh and Wallis point out that Californians already pay $1.50 per gallon more than the national average price of the 47 other continental states, and that CARB’s proposed changes will add on 65 to 85-cents per gallon next year, reaching as much as $1.50 by 2035.

“Families are already struggling with high gas prices, and they shouldn't be left in the dark about the financial impact of new policies,” said Senator Ochoa Bogh . “Californians deserve transparency and the chance to voice their concerns. The state’s priority must be to shield families from rising costs, not quietly advancing policies that make it harder for them to make ends meet.”

CARB initially released an estimate showing a 47-cent per gallon increase in gas prices for public comment, but retracted it after facing strong criticism. They had promised to provide updated estimates before implementing any changes, but now say they will not release any further estimates. The only available projection comes from a report by Dr. Danny Cullenward from Stanford University's School of Earth, Energy, and Environmental Sciences, which estimates an increase of 65 to 85 cents per gallon.

“The state’s refusal to disclose the real cost of these changes is irresponsible,” said Assemblymember Wallis . “Californians deserve transparency before any vote that will increase the price at the pump."

Ochoa Bogh, Wallis, and Republican legislators agree that the legislature needs to reclaim some of its policy-making authority from unelected boards like CARB that do not have to answer to Californians.

CARB is a 14-member board consisting of political appointees of Governor Newsom, the Democrat Majority of the Senate Rules Committee, and the State Assembly Speaker.

Sacramento County Sheriff Jim Cooper, while previously serving as a Democrat Assemblymember, called out the then-chair of CARB for pushing policies that “ favor your coastal elitist friends .”

Capitol Office

1021 O Street, Room 7220 Sacramento, CA 95814 Phone: (916) 651-4019 Fax: (916) 651-4919

Redlands Office

1758 Orange Tree Lane, Suite B Redlands, CA 92374 Phone: (909) 335-0271 Fax: (909) 335-0282

facebook Facebook

twitter Twitter

instagram Instagram

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

Home

About Rosilicie My Legislation Current Legislation Legislative Accomplishments 2024 Legislative Accomplishments 2023 Legislative Accomplishments 2022-21 Bill Search Committees Biography

My Legislation Current Legislation Legislative Accomplishments 2024 Legislative Accomplishments 2023 Legislative Accomplishments 2022-21 Bill Search

Current Legislation

Legislative Accomplishments 2024

Legislative Accomplishments 2023

Legislative Accomplishments 2022-21

Bill Search

Committees

Biography

District District Map Virtual Insurance Town Hall Virtual PSPS Town Hall Wildfire Resources

District Map

Virtual Insurance Town Hall

Virtual PSPS Town Hall

Wildfire Resources

Newsroom Releases/Editorials

Releases/Editorials

Contact Me Constituent Services E-mail the Senator Look Ahead Mobile Office Hours My Offices State Agencies Subscribe

Constituent Services

E-mail the Senator

Look Ahead

Mobile Office Hours

My Offices

State Agencies

Subscribe

Ochoa Bogh, Wallis lead effort to halt another upcoming gas price hike

Breadcrumb