Just before Christmas, the California Public Utilities Commission (PUC), which regulates cell phone services among other utilities, introduced a plan to impose a tax on text messages. Such a tax would be the first of its kind in the nation. When it leaked out to the public, to say there was a negative response from the public would be putting it lightly.

The plan was to be voted on at the PUC’s Jan. 10 meeting, but before that could happen, the Federal Communications Commission stepped in and said texts were not telecommunications but “information services,” similar to emails. The effect of the ruling was to establish that text messages are not under the purview of the PUC but that of the federal Telecommunications Act, which limits state jurisdiction over information services.

Why was the PUC so determined to tax our text messages? Because as text messaging has become integral to modern communications, the PUC sees it as a lucrative source of revenue to subsidize the ever-increasing array of new and expanding social programs the Democrats want to give away. It’s a classic “redistribution” of resources.

However, it’s already too expensive to live in this state. The middle class and the working poor get squeezed more and more every day. We pay ever-escalating taxes for food, schools, utilities, gas, streetlights, water and so many more essentials of day-to-day life. Our paychecks are taxed, our homes are taxed, our cars are taxed; even our trash is taxed. Slapping a tax on text messages is just one more nail in the coffin of affordability in this state.

To put a final kibosh on the text tax scheme I have co-authored a bill with Assemblyman Kevin Kiley (R-Rocklin). Assembly Bill 162 would bar the PUC from collecting any revenue for any universal service fund on any communications service classified as an information service by the FCC. It also would bar the PUC from going through the backdoor and imposing a tax on any text service by calling it a “utility reimbursement fee.”

AB 162 is a way to put a stop to the text tax scheme. It’s a small bill in scope that takes an important stand – that of keeping California from becoming even more unaffordable.

If enough pressure is brought to bear on majority Democrats and AB 162 is passed, it will send the message that government needs to live within its means, just like the rest of us.

AB 162 is eligible to be heard in committees and I welcome your thoughts on this bill.

This op-ed was originally published in the Poway News Chieftain on March 6, 2019: https://www. sandiegouniontribune.com/ pomerado-news/opinion/sd-cm- pow-edit-opinion-jones-0307- story.html .

Capitol Office

1021 O Street, Room 7640 Sacramento, CA 95814 Phone: (916) 651-4040 Fax: (916) 651-4940

Scripps Ranch Office

10650 Treena Street #110 San Diego, CA 92131 Phone: (858) 547-3818

Escondido Office

720 N. Broadway, Suite 110 Escondido, CA 92025 Phone: (760) 796-4655

facebook Facebook

twitter Twitter

instagram Instagram

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

Home

About Brian Biography

Biography

Legislation My Legislation Committees Bill Search

My Legislation

Committees

Bill Search

Newsroom Releases/Editorials In The News Audio/Video Are You Kidding Me? Photos Media Kit

Releases/Editorials

In The News

Audio/Video

Are You Kidding Me?

Photos

Media Kit

Contact Me Certificate Request District Internship Program District Map E-mail the Senator Legislative Proposal My Offices Subscribe to the Mailing List

Certificate Request

District Internship Program

District Map

E-mail the Senator

Legislative Proposal

My Offices

Subscribe to the Mailing List

Poway News Chieftain: Stopping the text tax scheme

More News

ICYMI

View All

Breadcrumb

Aug 6
California Republicans’ Growing Impact on Social Media
Jul 16
Leader Jones Stands on Steps of the Capitol Opposing the Anti-Charter School Bill
Jul 16
AB 84 Charter Schools Press Conference
Jul 15
Leader Jones Demands Accountability on Dangerous Sexually Violent Predator Program

Jun 17
2025
$8-a-gallon gas? Senate Minority Leader Brian W. Jones requests audit of gas price hikes
Jun 9
2025
Nixed bill could have prevented LA unrest, California minority leader says
Jun 8
2025
California lawmaker warns Menendez brothers' case is driving return of bill to release thousands of killers
Jun 3
2025
Ramona nonprofit, resident recognized with Senate District 40 awards