Thanks to years of failed Democrat policies, the cost of living in California has spiraled out of control.
This week, Assembly Republicans unveiled their plan to turn things around and lower costs for working families. At a press conference in the Capitol, Republican lawmakers announced legislation that will lower electric bills, repeal a Newsom administration mandate that will drive up gas prices, increase the renter’s tax credit, end taxes on tips and provide the largest middle-class tax cut in state history.
While Democrats are pushing the same failed policies, Assembly Republicans are fighting for common-sense solutions to solve California’s cost-of-living crisis.
Here is some of the positive media coverage the Republican plan to lower costs received:
Los Angeles Times:
“The bills announced Wednesday morning will tackle prices at the gas pump, create tax credits for low-income renters, and make tips tax-exempt for workers such as bartenders and manicurists … Assemblymember Greg Wallis (R-Bermuda Dunes) said he is ‘cautiously optimistic’ that Democrats in the Legislature will move their package forward. ‘Everything should be on the table to make this state more affordable,’ he said. ‘I’m hopeful we can find bipartisan solutions.’”
Capital Public Radio:
“Republican lawmakers in the state Capitol announced yesterday legislation aimed at reducing the cost of living in California, CapRadio’s Laura Fitzgerald reports … Some of the Republican-backed bills would eliminate tax on tips, require the state utilities commission to cut utility costs by 30% and pause increases to California’s low-carbon fuel standard with the goal of lowering gas prices.”
Politico:
“Assembly Republicans who have seized on California’s affordability problems to critique the Legislature’s Democratic supermajority today announced a legislative package that includes proposals on utilities and tax cuts.”
“The Republicans’ legislative package — which will need bipartisan support to advance — includes bills that aim to lower electric bills, eliminate tax on tips and give a universal 1 percent tax cut.”
CalMatters:
“Republicans at a press conference on Wednesday proposed cutting gas taxes and taxes on tips and lowering energy costs. ‘The Democrats talked a big game starting at the beginning of this year about affordability,’ Assembly Republican Minority Leader James Gallagher told reporters. ‘But where are the bills? Where are the bills from Democrats actually reducing people’s costs?’”
Imperial Valley Press:
“Assembly Republicans held a press conference on Wednesday morning, introducing a sweeping legislative package aimed at tackling California’s affordability crisis and providing much-needed relief to working families … The legislative package targets the rising costs of food, gas, housing, insurance, health care and utilities—key issues that have driven families and businesses out of the state. Key proposals include cutting utility rates by 30 percent, suspending the gas tax and future increases, and eliminating state income tax on tips received.”
KNX Radio:
“Assembly Republicans say they are focused on making California more affordable and trying to prevent people from going to other states … Some bills being proposed by Assembly Republicans include one that would stop the state from taxing tips and another that would cut personal income tax by 1% in California.”
Action News Now:
“California Assembly Republicans revealed their plan today to tackle the state’s affordability crisis. Several Assembly Republicans announced a package of bills designed to lower costs, saying the skyrocketing cost of food, gas, housing and insurance, along with high tax rates are driving people and businesses to leave the state … Assembly Republicans say that the package, which includes 12 different Assembly bills, would result in the largest middle-class tax cut in state history.”
###