Senator Tony Strickland ( R-Huntington Beach ) released a statement in support of U.S. Representative Kevin Kiley’s announcement of legislation that would prohibit mid-decade redistricting efforts nationwide. The federal bill would block California governor’s action to undermine a voter-approved citizens redistricting commission.

“It is essential to maintain the integrity of the California Citizens Redistricting Commission – approved by voters in 2008 -- as it safeguards voters' representation, prevents political manipulation, and promotes stability, ensuring that voters clearly understand who represents them.

“It’s no surprise that this governor is once again attempting to defy the will of the voters—just as he did with the anti-crime ballot initiative aimed at making crime illegal again. This governor characterizes his actions as protecting our democracy. Still, truly it is nothing more than a power grab as he continues to prioritize his political ambitions over the needs of the people.”

Governor Newsom has a pattern for ignoring the will of the voters and going against what they supported.

Newsom issued an executive order to halt the death penalty (March 2019) despite voters’ approval of both Proposition 34 (2012) and Proposition 66 (2016) that addressed capital punishment.

Newsom blocked and undermined Proposition 36 (2025), the anti-crime initiative to make crime illegal again. Newsom also promoted a competing ballot proposal and exerted pressure to limit the supporters of reform.

Capitol:

District Office:

301 Main Street, Suite 212 Huntington Beach, CA 92648 (714) 374-4000

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

<d

Home

About Tony Biography Committees

Biography

Committees

Newsroom Releases / Opinions Newsletters Audio / Video Photos

Releases / Opinions

Newsletters

Audio / Video

Photos

Contact Me District Map My Offices Scheduling Requests

District Map

My Offices

Scheduling Requests

Pro-Democracy Bill counteracts Newsom’s efforts to undermine voter-approved Citizens Redistricting Commission

Breadcrumb