Today the Senate Public Safety Committee approved a bill (SB 571) authored by Senator Suzette Valladares (R–Santa Clarita) that would increase California’s criminal penalties for perpetrators seeking to take advantage of victims during a state of emergency.

The new bill will make it a felony to loot and enhances the penalty for impersonating first responders during a state of emergency. The bipartisan bill is also jointly authored by Senator Bob Archuleta (D-Pico Rivera) and Senator Jesse Arreguin (D-Berkeley ).

“During the recent fires we saw criminals preying on victims of the fires by looting and even impersonating first responders to gain access to impacted properties,” said Senator Valladares. “This kind of criminal activity that further victimizes Californians at their most vulnerable must not be tolerated and these opportunistic criminals must be deterred and prosecuted to the fullest extent of the law.”

Specific penalty enhancements of SB 571 include:

Enhancing the crime of looting by making it a felony only and extending the time period in which the crime may occur to 180 days within a termination of a state of emergency. Additionally removes judicial discretion to limit or reduce related sentencing;

Establishing a new crime of fraudulently impersonating a first responder in an area subject to an evacuation order, with option to prosecute as felony.

The bill will next be heard in Senate Appropriations Committee.

“It is government’s responsibility to protect our communities and most vulnerable residents. This new law will help protect victims from opportunistic criminals, and ensure that our emergency responders can do their work without interference,” concluded Valladares.

Capitol

Valencia Office

25060 West Ave Stanford, Suite 130 Valencia, CA 91355 Phone: (661) 257-1204

Lancaster Office

42505 10th St West Suite 109 Lancaster, CA 93534 Phone: (661) 729-6232

Adelanto Office

11600 Air Expressway Adelanto, CA 92301 Phone: (760) 246-2911

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

<d

Home

About Suzette Biography Committees District Map

Biography

Committees

District Map

Legislation My Legislation Bill Search

My Legislation

Bill Search

Newsroom Releases / Opinions Media Kit

Releases / Opinions

Media Kit

Contact Me Email the Senator My Offices

Email the Senator

My Offices

Public Safety Committee Approves Bill to Increase Penalties for Crimes During State of Emergency

Breadcrumb