Today, Senate Minority Leader Brian W. Jones (R-San Diego) and Senate Public Safety Committee Vice Chair Kelly Seyarto ( R-Murrieta) released the Senate Republican Analysis exposing details of Senate Bill 94 (Cortese), a dangerous proposal that seeks to release inmates sentenced to life without parole for heinous murders. Click here to read the full analysis.

“SB 94 could literally let hundreds of the most heinous murderers out of prison early, even if they were sentenced to life WITHOUT parole,” said Leader Jones. “This harsh punishment is reserved for the worst of the worst criminals. They’ve taken people’s lives away and are sentenced to spend the rest of theirs in prison.

“Last year, outrage from Californians effectively stopped this bill from moving forward. Now, Democrats are trying to sneak it through in the final weeks of session with supposed amendments. At this point, I don’t see any amendment that would warrant releasing these dangerous murderers. We are exposing the true evils of SB 94 today by publishing our internal Senate Republican analysis of the bill,” continued Leader Jones.

Specifically, SB 94 would allow violent murderers sentenced to life in prison without the possibility of parole to petition the court for a new sentence with parole, if the individual has served at least 25 years and if their offense occurred before June 5, 1990. The individuals who are eligible for new sentencing under this bill are convicted of a “special circumstance murder,” a conviction that is reserved for violent criminals who commit murder in a particularly egregious manner such as torture, poison, lying in wait, rape by instrument, mayhem, etc. Click here to read the Senate Republican analysis for the full list of horrific murderers that would qualify for early release under SB 94.

“The supermajority’s efforts to empty California’s prisons have become entirely too focused on the criminals and forget to consider the victims and their families,” said Seyarto. “It is unacceptable for legislators to show this complete disregard for those who have suffered by re-litigating crimes that have already received a fair trial. This bill sends a terrible message and retraumatizes families of victims who were reassured that the criminals who have done unspeakable things to their loved ones would never be released.”

Last year, Leader Jones alerted Californians about the dangers of SB 94 through an Instagram Reel video , which garnered over 430,000 views. Today, Leader Jones released a new Instagram Reel video providing Californians with an update on the Democrats’ attempt to jam this bill through in the last weeks of the legislative session.

Capitol Office

1021 O Street, Room 7640 Sacramento, CA 95814 Phone: (916) 651-4040 Fax: (916) 651-4940

Scripps Ranch Office

10650 Treena Street #110 San Diego, CA 92131 Phone: (858) 547-3818

Escondido Office

720 N. Broadway, Suite 110 Escondido, CA 92025 Phone: (760) 796-4655

facebook Facebook

twitter Twitter

instagram Instagram

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

Home

About Brian Biography

Biography

Legislation My Legislation Committees Bill Search

My Legislation

Committees

Bill Search

Newsroom Releases/Editorials In The News Audio/Video Are You Kidding Me? Photos Media Kit

Releases/Editorials

In The News

Audio/Video

Are You Kidding Me?

Photos

Media Kit

Contact Me Certificate Request District Internship Program District Map E-mail the Senator Legislative Proposal My Offices Subscribe to the Mailing List

Certificate Request

District Internship Program

District Map

E-mail the Senator

Legislative Proposal

My Offices

Subscribe to the Mailing List

Radical Democrat Lawmakers Want to Release Violent Murderers Sentenced to Life without Parole

More News

ICYMI

View All

Breadcrumb

Aug 6
California Republicans’ Growing Impact on Social Media
Jul 16
Leader Jones Stands on Steps of the Capitol Opposing the Anti-Charter School Bill
Jul 16
AB 84 Charter Schools Press Conference
Jul 15
Leader Jones Demands Accountability on Dangerous Sexually Violent Predator Program

Jun 17
2025
$8-a-gallon gas? Senate Minority Leader Brian W. Jones requests audit of gas price hikes
Jun 9
2025
Nixed bill could have prevented LA unrest, California minority leader says
Jun 8
2025
California lawmaker warns Menendez brothers' case is driving return of bill to release thousands of killers
Jun 3
2025
Ramona nonprofit, resident recognized with Senate District 40 awards