Sacramento – Today, Assemblymember Laurie Davies (R-Laguna Niguel) issued the following statement following the introduction of her bill AB 303: “The recent tragedies in both Monterey Park and Half Moon Bay illustrate a dire need for California to reform how our state’s gun violence prevention programs are operating. Our Armed Prohibited Persons System (APPS) should be a tool used by local law enforcement agencies to ensure those deemed unfit to possess a firearm do not do so. Unfortunately, however, there have been reports of little to no communication between state authorities at the California Department of Justice (DOJ) and local officials. This must change. AB 303 is a common-sense measure to require all investigative notes and reports collected by DOJ regarding individuals on the APPS database be shared with our local law enforcement agencies.” AB 303 is an attempt to ensure that whenever a person is placed in the APPS database, all information the state has on the individual can be sent to local officials so they may begin their own investigations. According to a bombshell 2021 CalMatters investigation , over 150 agencies denied ever being given any reports or notes from DOJ about people on the database. Worse, it has also been reported by the DOJ that the system has a backlog of over 24,000 people. Sharing information and investigative reports with all agencies will make Californians safer and allow for more thorough investigations. In the coming weeks, Assemblywoman Davies will also be working with colleagues on a budget request for increased funding for the APPS program. ### Assemblywoman Laurie Davies represents the 74th Assembly District, which includes the communities of southern Orange County, including Dana Point, Laguna Niguel, San Clemente, and San Juan Capistrano plus the communities of northern San Diego County, including Camp Pendleton, Oceanside and Vista.

January 26, 2023

In the News , Press Release

August 28, 2025

August 20, 2025

July 3, 2025

Related Posts