On November 22, 1943, Private First Class Joseph Robert Livermore of Bakersfield lost his life to an enemy bayonet at the Battle of Tarawa. Until recently, he was listed as missing in action, but after the discovery of a mass grave this past March, the Defense POW/MIA Accounting Agency (DPAA) positively identified remains as those belonging to the World War II marine.

Alongside local organizations and community leaders, Senate Republican Leader Shannon Grove (R-Bakersfield) now wants to help bring closure to PFC Livermore’s loved ones by memorializing his life and service when his remains return to Bakersfield for burial at the Historic Union Cemetery in November.

Before enlisting in the military, PFC Livermore played football for East Bakersfield High School. Just days after the attack on Pearl Harbor, the 19-year-old bravely enlisted to serve in the United States Marine Corps and was killed in the line of duty two years later.

“PFC Livermore served our country with honor and integrity. He will be coming home to Bakersfield in November where he will receive the true hero’s welcome that he deserves. I am thankful and grateful that my office will be partnering with various veterans organizations to ensure the homecoming is an incredible experience for his family. They deserve nothing less,” said Senate Republican Leader Shannon Grove.

“After decades of uncertainty, we are able to finally close a chapter of our lives and give my uncle a proper military funeral that he deserves. My uncle enlisted to serve our country after the attack on Pearl Harbor, died during combat and never came home. Our family cannot thank the multiple leaders enough who are working together to bring him home, including Senator Grove and her staff who have supported us every step of the way to make sure he receives a proper homecoming,” said Darrell Feliz, nephew of PFC Livermore.

“For more than 75 years, this brave American was buried in an unmarked grave. Now we can give him the proper peace he deserves. We are honored to assist and bring home the remains of PFC Livermore to his hometown to be laid to rest with his mother. Thank you to Senator Grove and the various veterans organizations who can make this dream a reality for the Marine’s family,” Griselda Hurtado, Association Manager for Historical Union Cemetery.

Capitol Office

1021 O Street, Room 7150 Sacramento, CA 95814 Phone: (916) 651-4012 Fax: (916) 651-4916

Bakersfield Office

5701 Truxtun Ave., Suite 150 Bakersfield, CA 93309 Phone: (661) 323-0443 Fax: (661) 323-0446

Fresno Office

567 W. Shaw Ave., Suite A-3 Fresno, CA 93704 Phone:  559-243-8580

facebook Facebook

twitter Twitter

instagram Instagram

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

Home

About Shannon Biography Committees 12th Senate District Map

Biography

Committees

12th Senate District Map

Legislation My Legislation Bill Search Submit a Legislative Proposal

My Legislation

Bill Search

Submit a Legislative Proposal

Newsroom Releases / Editorials Photos

Releases / Editorials

Photos

Resources California Senate Fellows Program Coronavirus Information Education Register to Vote Unclaimed Property Veteran Resources

California Senate Fellows Program

Coronavirus Information

Education

Register to Vote

Unclaimed Property

Veteran Resources

Contact me My Offices E-mail the Senator Subscribe

My Offices

E-mail the Senator

Subscribe

Remains of MIA Marine at Battle of Tarawa Found, Will Return to Bakersfield after 75 Years

More News

View All

Breadcrumb

Aug 29
Senator Shannon Grove Celebrates Advancement of Key Bills for Special Education and Rural Healthcare, Expresses Disappointment Over Scrapping of Leno’s Law
Aug 27
VIDEO: Celebrity advocate Paris Hilton calls for passage of child protection measure ahead of key vote
Aug 25
Senator Shannon Grove and Assemblyman David Tangipa  Honor Retired NFL Quarterback, Derek Carr
Aug 21
Senator Shannon Grove opposes Democrats' attempt to override the will of California voters