SACRAMENTO – Today, California State Senate Republicans rallied with independent contractors in support of Senate Bill 238 . This proposed legislation would have allowed hardworking Californians who are independent contractors to continue with their employment choice. SB 238 would have conformed California’s test for employment with an existing federal standard. Following a press conference, SB 238, introduced by Senate Republican Leader Shannon Grove (R-Bakersfield) and co-authored by all Senate Republicans, was heard in the Senate Labor Committee. The bill failed to pass on a partisan vote.

In 2018, the California State Supreme Court ruling known as the Dynamex decision created a new test to determine whether a worker is an employee or an independent contractor.  The new test doesn’t account for the diverse workforce in California.

“We all know someone who is an independent contractor: a single mother who takes a job with Uber or a millennial who has a side gig to earn money to pay for their college education.  In fact, nearly half of all millennials are currently freelancers.  This court ruling has affected their livelihood.

“The one-size-fits all employment standard effectively undercuts nearly two million workers’ freedom to choose independent work as a way to support themselves and their families. It’s unfortunate that this became a partisan issue in the Capitol when it is an issue that impacts millions in California,” said Leader Grove.

“As a millennial independent contractor, I’m concerned about the restrictive employment test handed down by the state’s highest court. I support Senator Grove’s legislation and I want to fight for workplace flexibility,” said 23-year-old Thomas May, who owns a financial services business and contracts with many different clients.

Support for SB 238 included:

United Chamber of Advocacy Network

El Dorado County Chamber of Commerce

Elk Grove Chamber of Commerce

Folsom Chamber of Commerce

Greater Sacramento Vietnamese American Chamber of Commerce

Kern County Black Chamber of Commerce

Rancho Cordova Chamber of Commerce

Roseville Chamber of Commerce

Vacaville Chamber of Commerce

Powerful testimony was heard from:

Password to view videos: SB238

Thomas May , a millennial financial planner

Anthony Luu , President of the Greater Sacramento Vietnamese American Chamber of Commerce

Senate Republican Leader Shannon Grove (R-Bakersfield)

Senator Patricia Bates (R-Laguna Niguel)

Senator Mike Morrell (R-Rancho Cucamonga)

Senator Jim Nielsen (R-Tehama)

###

Capitol Office

1021 O Street, Room 7150 Sacramento, CA 95814 Phone: (916) 651-4012 Fax: (916) 651-4916

Bakersfield Office

5701 Truxtun Ave., Suite 150 Bakersfield, CA 93309 Phone: (661) 323-0443 Fax: (661) 323-0446

Fresno Office

567 W. Shaw Ave., Suite A-3 Fresno, CA 93704 Phone:  559-243-8580

facebook Facebook

twitter Twitter

instagram Instagram

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

Home

About Shannon Biography Committees 12th Senate District Map

Biography

Committees

12th Senate District Map

Legislation My Legislation Bill Search Submit a Legislative Proposal

My Legislation

Bill Search

Submit a Legislative Proposal

Newsroom Releases / Editorials Photos

Releases / Editorials

Photos

Resources California Senate Fellows Program Coronavirus Information Education Register to Vote Unclaimed Property Veteran Resources

California Senate Fellows Program

Coronavirus Information

Education

Register to Vote

Unclaimed Property

Veteran Resources

Contact me My Offices E-mail the Senator Subscribe

My Offices

E-mail the Senator

Subscribe

Sacramento Democrats Kill Legislation that Would Help Independent Contractors

More News

View All

Breadcrumb

Aug 29
Senator Shannon Grove Celebrates Advancement of Key Bills for Special Education and Rural Healthcare, Expresses Disappointment Over Scrapping of Leno’s Law
Aug 27
VIDEO: Celebrity advocate Paris Hilton calls for passage of child protection measure ahead of key vote
Aug 25
Senator Shannon Grove and Assemblyman David Tangipa  Honor Retired NFL Quarterback, Derek Carr
Aug 21
Senator Shannon Grove opposes Democrats' attempt to override the will of California voters