The governor and Legislature took $331 million from the National Mortgage Special Deposit Fund intended to help struggling homeowners and instead used the money to backfill their budget deficits. Thankfully, the California Supreme Court recognized these dishonest actions and found the money was unlawfully diverted.

This is the same decision lower courts came to, but instead of returning the funds, former Gov. Jerry Brown and current Gov. Gavin Newsom both decided to appeal until the case reached the state’s highest court.

The foreclosure crisis was devastating for many families and it was dishonest for elected officials to divert the funds allocated to help homeowners. While reducing state debt is a supportable goal, it should not be at the expense of struggling homeowners.

Since the mortgage settlement in 2012, California has had billions of dollars in annual budget surpluses that the state could have used to balance the budget. During this time, Sacramento politicians raised taxes and approved several state bonds, yet Democrat elected officials still believe it was appropriate to divert the mortgage funds.

Unfortunately, Californians should not be surprised by this. We have watched governors and the State Legislature repeatedly make promises to residents of our state, then turn around, and break them. Taking the resources designated to help those damaged by the “predatory practices” that caused the mortgage failure and using them to bail out poorly-prioritized spending by government agencies is just another example of their broken promises.

Now that the Supreme Court has spoken, it is time for the governor and the Legislature to stop with the appeals and return these funds. Return the funds and stop this game.

It is time for Governor Newsom and Sacramento Democrats to put homeowners first and provide the assistance and relief they promised.

Capitol Office

1021 O Street, Room 7150 Sacramento, CA 95814 Phone: (916) 651-4012 Fax: (916) 651-4916

Bakersfield Office

5701 Truxtun Ave., Suite 150 Bakersfield, CA 93309 Phone: (661) 323-0443 Fax: (661) 323-0446

Fresno Office

567 W. Shaw Ave., Suite A-3 Fresno, CA 93704 Phone:  559-243-8580

facebook Facebook

twitter Twitter

instagram Instagram

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

Home

About Shannon Biography Committees 12th Senate District Map

Biography

Committees

12th Senate District Map

Legislation My Legislation Bill Search Submit a Legislative Proposal

My Legislation

Bill Search

Submit a Legislative Proposal

Newsroom Releases / Editorials Photos

Releases / Editorials

Photos

Resources California Senate Fellows Program Coronavirus Information Education Register to Vote Unclaimed Property Veteran Resources

California Senate Fellows Program

Coronavirus Information

Education

Register to Vote

Unclaimed Property

Veteran Resources

Contact me My Offices E-mail the Senator Subscribe

My Offices

E-mail the Senator

Subscribe

The Sacramento Observer: The Supreme Court Has Spoken: Return the Stolen Funds

More News

View All

Breadcrumb

Aug 29
Senator Shannon Grove Celebrates Advancement of Key Bills for Special Education and Rural Healthcare, Expresses Disappointment Over Scrapping of Leno’s Law
Aug 27
VIDEO: Celebrity advocate Paris Hilton calls for passage of child protection measure ahead of key vote
Aug 25
Senator Shannon Grove and Assemblyman David Tangipa  Honor Retired NFL Quarterback, Derek Carr
Aug 21
Senator Shannon Grove opposes Democrats' attempt to override the will of California voters