In recognition of California Agriculture Day, today Senator Marie Alvarado-Gil ( R-Jackson ) introduced Senate Bill 353 (SB 353) to extend the Farm to Food Bank Tax Credit, which supports farmers for their donation of fresh food to local food banks. The current credit, which provides a 15% tax incentive for qualified food donations, is set to sunset in 2027. SB 353 would extend the sunset indefinitely.

"If it’s on your plate, it’s California-grown! Today, we celebrate the hardworking farmers, ranchers, and agricultural workers who nourish our communities and fuel our economy. But under Democrat policies, too many families are struggling to afford groceries. Many seniors, veterans, and pregnant women rely on food banks. Extending this tax credit means supporting our farmers, strengthening those vital food banks, and feeding California’s most vulnerable,” said Senator Alvarado-Gil, Vice Chair of the Senate Committee on Agriculture.

In 2023, California farmers donated $8.2 million in food, with $769,499 in tax credits awarded. These donations have provided essential support to food banks across the state, including those within Senate District 4. With California's agriculture industry contributing $50 billion annually to the state’s economy—$10 billion of which comes from Senate District 4—extending this tax credit will further strengthen the partnership between farmers, food banks, and families.

“The flow of tax credits to farmers ensures easier access to healthy food for families. This bill protects that vital cycle. As Vice Chair of the Senate Committee on Agriculture, I want to extend my heartfelt thanks to all those who keep us fed. Happy Ag Day!” concluded Senator Alvarado-Gil.

Capitol

Modesto

1020 15th Street, Ste 21 Modesto, CA 95354 Phone: (209) 576-6001

El Dorado Hills

4364 Town Center Blvd, Suite 313 El Dorado Hills, CA 95762 Phone: (916) 933-8680

Privacy Policy

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

Sen. Alvarado-Gil celebrates California Agriculture Day, announces bill extending Farm to Food Bank Tax Credit

<d

Home

About Marie Biography District Map

Biography

District Map

Legislation Bill Search

Bill Search

Newsroom Press Releases Op-Eds

Press Releases

Op-Eds

Contact Me District Offices Email the Senator Scheduling Requests State Resources Subscribe

District Offices

Email the Senator

Scheduling Requests

State Resources

Subscribe

Breadcrumb