Senator Shannon Grove ( R-Bakersfield ) is pleased to announce her bipartisan legislation, Senate Bill 1043 , the Accountability in Children’s Treatment (ACT) measure, has passed through the California State Legislature and will move to the Governor’s desk for signature. Celebrity advocate Paris Hilton and her nonprofit organization 11:11 Media Impact are the sponsor of the measure.

California’s short-term residential therapeutic programs (STRTPs) serve children and young adults who need an increased level of care, and these treatment facilities have the ability to use restraints and seclusion rooms if the facility believes the patient is a danger to themselves or others.

These facilities are required to report all restraint and seclusion room use to the California Department of Social Services (CDSS). The department is then required to put this information online and make it available to the public. However, the information has yet to be posted online and made publicly available. SB 1043 will require CDSS to publicly post this critical data, including each incident report.

“My bill, Accountability in Children’s Treatment Act, just passed through the Legislature and is headed to the Governor’s desk for his signature,” said Senator Shannon Grove . “The act will promote the highest level of transparency when it comes to using restraints or seclusion rooms on youth in short-term residential therapeutic programs. It has been an honor to work alongside Paris Hilton and 11:11 Media to ensure California’s children are safe and secure in treatment programs.”

“I am so proud to see SB1043 pass through the California legislature and grateful to all the Senators and Assemblymembers who voted on this bill to protect our youth!” said celebrity advocate Paris Hilton. “For too long, these facilities have operated without adequate oversight, leaving vulnerable youth at risk. I urge Governor Newsom to sign SB1043 into law, affirming California’s commitment to protecting our youth and setting a national standard for transparency and accountability in these institutions. This bill is a vital step towards ensuring that every child is treated with the care and respect they deserve.”

Governor Newsom has until September 30 th to sign The Accountability in Children’s Treatment Act into law.

Capitol Office

1021 O Street, Room 7150 Sacramento, CA 95814 Phone: (916) 651-4012 Fax: (916) 651-4916

Bakersfield Office

5701 Truxtun Ave., Suite 150 Bakersfield, CA 93309 Phone: (661) 323-0443 Fax: (661) 323-0446

Fresno Office

567 W. Shaw Ave., Suite A-3 Fresno, CA 93704 Phone:  559-243-8580

facebook Facebook

twitter Twitter

instagram Instagram

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

Home

About Shannon Biography Committees 12th Senate District Map

Biography

Committees

12th Senate District Map

Legislation My Legislation Bill Search Submit a Legislative Proposal

My Legislation

Bill Search

Submit a Legislative Proposal

Newsroom Releases / Editorials Photos

Releases / Editorials

Photos

Resources California Senate Fellows Program Coronavirus Information Education Register to Vote Unclaimed Property Veteran Resources

California Senate Fellows Program

Coronavirus Information

Education

Register to Vote

Unclaimed Property

Veteran Resources

Contact me My Offices E-mail the Senator Subscribe

My Offices

E-mail the Senator

Subscribe

Sen. Grove’s Accountability in Children’s Treatment Act is heading to the Governor desk for Signature

More News

View All

Breadcrumb

Aug 29
Senator Shannon Grove Celebrates Advancement of Key Bills for Special Education and Rural Healthcare, Expresses Disappointment Over Scrapping of Leno’s Law
Aug 27
VIDEO: Celebrity advocate Paris Hilton calls for passage of child protection measure ahead of key vote
Aug 25
Senator Shannon Grove and Assemblyman David Tangipa  Honor Retired NFL Quarterback, Derek Carr
Aug 21
Senator Shannon Grove opposes Democrats' attempt to override the will of California voters