Senator Shannon Grove ( R-Bakersfield ) is pleased to announce her legislation, Senate Bill 1043 , the Accountability in Children’s Treatment Act , has been signed into law by Governor Newsom. This bipartisan legislation, sponsored by celebrity advocate Paris Hilton and her nonprofit organization 11:11 Media Impact, marks a crucial step towards ensuring the welfare of California's vulnerable youth in treatment programs.

California’s short-term residential therapeutic programs (STRTPs) serve children and young adults who need an increased level of care, and these treatment facilities have the ability to use restraints and seclusion rooms if the facility believes the patient is a danger to themselves or others.

These facilities are required to report all restraint and seclusion room use to the California Department of Social Services (CDSS). The department is then required to put this information online and make it available to the public. However, the information has yet to be posted online and made publicly available. SB 1043 will require CDSS to publicly post this critical data, including each incident report.

"I am honored that Governor Newsom has recognized the importance of signing The Accountability in Children’s Treatment Act into law," said Senator Shannon Grove. "Through SB 1043, we are strengthening accountability measures within California’s STRTPs by requiring the public posting of critical information, including the use of restraints and seclusion rooms. This legislation underscores California’s commitment to transparency and safeguarding the well-being of our at-risk children. It has been a privilege to work alongside one of the most incredible advocates, Paris Hilton, to make a positive impact on the lives of vulnerable children in California."

“I am beyond appreciative of Governor Newsom for signing The Accountability in Children’s Treatment Act today, this is such a big step forward for protecting youth in California’s youth treatment facilities. I also want to thank Senator Shannon Grove for championing this bill and fighting to protect California children!” said celebrity advocate Paris Hilton. “For too long, these facilities have operated without adequate oversight, leaving vulnerable youth at risk. After being abused in a California facility in my teens, it is validating to see California taking a stand to protecting our youth and I hope our state is the standard for transparency and accountability in these facilities moving forward. Today is a win for California children and youth!”

The Accountability in Children’s Treatment Act will go into effect January 1, 2026.

Capitol Office

1021 O Street, Room 7150 Sacramento, CA 95814 Phone: (916) 651-4012 Fax: (916) 651-4916

Bakersfield Office

5701 Truxtun Ave., Suite 150 Bakersfield, CA 93309 Phone: (661) 323-0443 Fax: (661) 323-0446

Fresno Office

567 W. Shaw Ave., Suite A-3 Fresno, CA 93704 Phone:  559-243-8580

facebook Facebook

twitter Twitter

instagram Instagram

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

Home

About Shannon Biography Committees 12th Senate District Map

Biography

Committees

12th Senate District Map

Legislation My Legislation Bill Search Submit a Legislative Proposal

My Legislation

Bill Search

Submit a Legislative Proposal

Newsroom Releases / Editorials Photos

Releases / Editorials

Photos

Resources California Senate Fellows Program Coronavirus Information Education Register to Vote Unclaimed Property Veteran Resources

California Senate Fellows Program

Coronavirus Information

Education

Register to Vote

Unclaimed Property

Veteran Resources

Contact me My Offices E-mail the Senator Subscribe

My Offices

E-mail the Senator

Subscribe

Sen. Grove’s Accountability in Children’s Treatment Act signed into law by Governor

More News

View All

Breadcrumb

Aug 29
Senator Shannon Grove Celebrates Advancement of Key Bills for Special Education and Rural Healthcare, Expresses Disappointment Over Scrapping of Leno’s Law
Aug 27
VIDEO: Celebrity advocate Paris Hilton calls for passage of child protection measure ahead of key vote
Aug 25
Senator Shannon Grove and Assemblyman David Tangipa  Honor Retired NFL Quarterback, Derek Carr
Aug 21
Senator Shannon Grove opposes Democrats' attempt to override the will of California voters