Today, Senate Democrat leadership blocked Senator Rosilicie Ochoa Bogh’s ( R-Yucaipa ) bill to immediately halt the state’s gas tax and provide significant economic relief to California consumers at the pump.

The Senate majority party (31 Democrats, 9 Republicans) has convened an Extraordinary Session to discuss why gas prices are so much higher in the Golden State compared to the rest of the United States, however they have once again disregarded the legislative process by refusing to hear real solutions.

“Our families across the state are facing unprecedented financial strain. From groceries to utilities, the cost of living continues to soar,” said Senator Ochoa Bogh. “It is our legislative duty to support struggling families, and one critical step we can take is to provide immediate relief from the burdensome state excise tax.”

Senator Ochoa Bogh’s measure would have suspended this gas tax for one year and ensured cost savings were passed directly to the consumer. If passed, the bill would have taken effect immediately.

The same bill has been introduced in this Extraordinary Session in the Assembly, but was not given a hearing.

“It’s shameful that Senate Democrats are engaging in political theatrics while California families continue to bear the brunt of the highest gas prices in the nation,” added Senator Ochoa Bogh . “They’re putting on a show while families are struggling to make ends meet. My bill would have lowered gas prices by 60 cents per gallon – real savings for real people.”

According to the Auto Club , the current price for a gallon of gas in California is $4.68, while the national average is $3.17.

“It is time we stop with the empty gestures and start delivering for the people we were elected to serve. This suspension would have offered significant cost savings for Californians and created a ripple effect across various sectors that depend on transportation, production, and manufacturing within the state. By reducing these costs, the bill would have alleviated the burden of the rising cost of living, providing immediate relief for families and businesses alike,” Senator Ochoa Bogh concluded.

Capitol Office

1021 O Street, Room 7220 Sacramento, CA 95814 Phone: (916) 651-4019 Fax: (916) 651-4919

Redlands Office

1758 Orange Tree Lane, Suite B Redlands, CA 92374 Phone: (909) 335-0271 Fax: (909) 335-0282

facebook Facebook

twitter Twitter

instagram Instagram

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

Home

About Rosilicie My Legislation Current Legislation Legislative Accomplishments 2024 Legislative Accomplishments 2023 Legislative Accomplishments 2022-21 Bill Search Committees Biography

My Legislation Current Legislation Legislative Accomplishments 2024 Legislative Accomplishments 2023 Legislative Accomplishments 2022-21 Bill Search

Current Legislation

Legislative Accomplishments 2024

Legislative Accomplishments 2023

Legislative Accomplishments 2022-21

Bill Search

Committees

Biography

District District Map Virtual Insurance Town Hall Virtual PSPS Town Hall Wildfire Resources

District Map

Virtual Insurance Town Hall

Virtual PSPS Town Hall

Wildfire Resources

Newsroom Releases/Editorials

Releases/Editorials

Contact Me Constituent Services E-mail the Senator Look Ahead Mobile Office Hours My Offices State Agencies Subscribe

Constituent Services

E-mail the Senator

Look Ahead

Mobile Office Hours

My Offices

State Agencies

Subscribe

Sen. Ochoa Bogh’s bill to pause gas tax blocked by Democrat leadership

Breadcrumb