Today, Senator Marie Alvarado-Gil’s (R-Jackson) bill enhancing rural law enforcement’s ability to protect communities and respond to emergencies in Amador and Nevada counties passed unanimously in the Senate Public Safety Committee.

“Rural communities face unique public safety challenges, and we must ensure law enforcement has the ability to respond to those challenges effectively," said Senator Alvarado-Gi l. “In a natural disaster or public safety emergency, every second counts. By expanding their authority, we're not only improving response times, we're ensuring that our communities are supported by a law enforcement system that can adapt to their needs."

Senate Bill 229 (SB 229) amends Penal Code 830.1 to expand the definition of a peace officer to include deputy sheriffs in Amador and Nevada counties.

Currently, deputy sheriffs in these counties have limited authority, mainly handling custodial duties. In rural areas where resources are stretched thin, SB 229 is crucial for ensuring deputies can respond quickly to emergencies, maintain public order during disasters, support neighboring counties, and perform other essential law enforcement duties.

"Incorporating Amador County into this code would provide a critical force multiplier, ensuring we have the necessary personnel to respond effectively to emergencies. Amador County Correctional Officers undergo the same rigorous training as my sworn staff. While they would not engage in enforcement functions, they could play a vital role in essential duties such as roadblocks, search and rescue operations, and evacuation efforts," said Amador County Sheriff Gary Redman .

“SB 229 is an opportunity to directly enhance our jail-related safety and procedures in Nevada County. With its passage, it ensures that our correctional officers, also known as custodial staff, have the same authority and operational scope as peace officers in other California counties when it comes to carrying out essential custodial-related responsibilities, such as operating our jails, managing inmate custody, care, supervision, and transportation. This is already in place throughout California, and if passed, it will be in place for Nevada County as well, said Nevada County Sheriff Shannan Moon .

SB 229 now moves to the Senate floor for further consideration.

Capitol

Modesto

1020 15th Street, Ste 21 Modesto, CA 95354 Phone: (209) 576-6001

El Dorado Hills

4364 Town Center Blvd, Suite 313 El Dorado Hills, CA 95762 Phone: (916) 933-8680

Privacy Policy

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

<d

Home

About Marie Biography District Map

Biography

District Map

Legislation Bill Search

Bill Search

Newsroom Press Releases Op-Eds

Press Releases

Op-Eds

Contact Me District Offices Email the Senator Scheduling Requests State Resources Subscribe

District Offices

Email the Senator

Scheduling Requests

State Resources

Subscribe

Sen. Marie Alvarado-Gil's bill bolstering rural law enforcement passes public safety committee

Breadcrumb