In response to the continued erosion of parental rights in California’s public schools, Senator Marie Alvarado-Gil ( R-Jackson ) is spotlighting Senate Bill 527 (SB 527 ) , her legislation aimed at restoring parents’ ability to coach school sports without the current restrictions imposed by 2019’s Assembly Bill 5.

“AB 5's overregulation not only harmed businesses, it also stripped parents of the simple joy of coaching their kid's sports team without tripping over red tape. They’ve been forced to sit on the sidelines,” said Senator Alvarado-Gil. “This bill puts parents back in the game, restoring their role as mentors and active participants in their child’s athletic development.”

Under current law, parents and community members who volunteer as walk-on coaches are treated as employees under AB 5. This has created financial burdens for schools, especially in rural areas, requiring districts to pay volunteer coaches wages equivalent to school employees and provide benefits. As a result, schools are struggling to maintain sports programs, and are forced to cut coaching hours or reduce opportunities for students.

SB 527 would exempt walk-on coaches from the provisions of AB 5, allowing K-12 schools to use parents and community members to coach sports teams during practice and games for a specified season.

“This brings back what we used to do for decades - it’s commonsense. Whether parent or community volunteer, positive role models on field help guide kids on the path to success. A lot of important life lessons can be learned playing sports. So if a parent coach has made a positive difference in your life, I want to hear from you!” Senator Alvarado-Gil concluded.

To voice your support SB 527, and to share how walk-on parent coaches have made a positive difference in your community, CLICK HERE .

Capitol

Modesto

1020 15th Street, Ste 21 Modesto, CA 95354 Phone: (209) 576-6001

El Dorado Hills

4364 Town Center Blvd, Suite 313 El Dorado Hills, CA 95762 Phone: (916) 933-8680

Privacy Policy

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

<d

Home

About Marie Biography District Map

Biography

District Map

Legislation Bill Search

Bill Search

Newsroom Press Releases Op-Eds

Press Releases

Op-Eds

Contact Me District Offices Email the Senator Scheduling Requests State Resources Subscribe

District Offices

Email the Senator

Scheduling Requests

State Resources

Subscribe

Sen. Marie Alvarado-Gil champions parental involvement in K-12 sports

Breadcrumb