Today Senator Suzette Martinez Valladares (R-Santa Clarita) announced that the bill (SB 563) she authored to expand access for funding for certain special districts, including the Hesperia Recreation & Park District, has been approved by the full State Senate. The bill will go onto be considered by the Assembly.

The bill would expand access to the Off Highway Motor Vehicle Recreation (OHMVR) grant program to include California special districts that employ law enforcement. This will help these districts be better equipped to respond to illegal or unsafe off-highway activities, patrol trails, and protect sensitive habitat.

“Special district personnel, like the dedicated employees of the Hesperia Recreation & Park District, are often times on the front lines of patrolling mixed terrain environments and need appropriate vehicles to protect people and land,” said Senator Valladares. “By expanding access to this vehicle grant program, it will maximize available funding and ultimately better equip law enforcement with the tools they need to perform vital duties to keep our communities well served and safe.”

Currently, state statute defines a specific list of eligible entities, including cities and counties that are able to apply for grants through the OHMVR grant program. Special districts that operate their own sworn public safety departments are excluded from eligibility, despite facing similar challenges and providing the same critical services as many cities and counties.  Allowing these districts to participate in the OHMVR grant program will improve the safety and sustainability of California’s recreational lands.

"As a special district with sworn park rangers, we fully support SB 563 because it levels the playing field and gives us access to critical state resources for enforcement and public safety. This bill will help us better protect our parks, educate the public, and ensure responsible off-highway vehicle use in our rural community." - Mario Chavez, Chief Park Ranger, Hesperia Recreation and Park District.

Capitol

Valencia Office

25060 West Ave Stanford, Suite 130 Valencia, CA 91355 Phone: (661) 257-1204

Lancaster Office

42505 10th St West Suite 109 Lancaster, CA 93534 Phone: (661) 729-6232

Adelanto Office

11600 Air Expressway Adelanto, CA 92301 Phone: (760) 246-2911

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

<d

Home

About Suzette Biography Committees District Map

Biography

Committees

District Map

Legislation My Legislation Bill Search

My Legislation

Bill Search

Newsroom Releases / Opinions Media Kit

Releases / Opinions

Media Kit

Contact Me Email the Senator My Offices

Email the Senator

My Offices

Sen Valladares’ Bill to Expand Funding for Hesperia Recreation & Park District Gets Senate Approval

Breadcrumb