Today, Governor Gavin Newsom has signed Senator Shannon Grove’s (R-Bakersfield) bill Senate Bill 1414 (SB 1414) into law, marking another significant milestone in the fight against child sex trafficking in California.

"Today marks an incredible victory for California children. With the signing of my bill, SB 1414, we are reaffirming our commitment to safeguarding the most vulnerable among us—our children. SB 1414 (Grove) increases the penalty for soliciting or purchasing a child for sex from a misdemeanor to a felony, with a caveat that 16 and 17-year-olds must be proven victims of human trafficking. Criminals have been far ahead of us when it comes to child sex trafficking, we must have a strong approach to eradicate this brutal crime and ensure no child is reduced to a commodity," said Senator Shannon Grove.

"The enactment of both of my bills, SB 14 last year and SB 1414 today, provides a significant step in the right direction to protect our children from both child sex traffickers and buyers. This is a crucial step, yet there is still work to be done. My pledge to champion protections for ALL children in California remains unwavering,” concluded Senator Grove.

SB 1414 was profoundly shaped by the survivors of human trafficking, who have courageously shared their experiences in the hope of enacting change and ensuring accountability for child sex purchasers. Their invaluable contributions, combined with bipartisan legislative support, the steadfast support of the First Partner and the Governor, as well as the backing of a coalition of over 100 organizations, have all been critical in bringing this legislation to the finish line. The measure was sponsored by two incredible organizations, 3Strands Global Foundation and Love Never Fails, who fight every day to end the horrendous practice of human trafficking and provide for those who have survived this terrible crime.

“At 3Strands Global Foundation, we remain steadfast in our mission to prevent human trafficking and support survivors. This legislation is a reflection of the tireless efforts of survivors, advocates, and legislators committed to ending human trafficking in our state. SB 1414 represents real progress in protecting our children and ensuring that those who seek to exploit them face the full force of the law, and passing this legislation is a victory for prevention and a beacon of hope for countless children across California. We are grateful to Senator Grove and Governor Newsom for their commitment to fight for a world where every child is safe from exploitation," said Ashlie Bryant, CEO 3Strands Global Foundation.

“Today is a day of victory for California’s exploited children and their families. We thank Senator Grove and all who supported SB1414 for standing up and protecting vulnerable and precious children and we hope sex buyers will seek healing and protect children instead of harm them in the years to come,” said Vanessa Russell, Executive Director Love Never Fails.

“No imperative is stronger than our responsibility to protect the most vulnerable members of society. Senate Bill 1414 is a critical step to help keep children safe from the heinous crime of sex trafficking and strengthen our ability to protect victims and survivors. I applaud the Governor, Senator Grove, and the Legislature for sending a bipartisan message that crimes against children have no place in California.” First Partner Jennifer Siebel Newsom.

﻿ SB 1414 goes into effect January 1, 2025.

Capitol Office

1021 O Street, Room 7150 Sacramento, CA 95814 Phone: (916) 651-4012 Fax: (916) 651-4916

Bakersfield Office

5701 Truxtun Ave., Suite 150 Bakersfield, CA 93309 Phone: (661) 323-0443 Fax: (661) 323-0446

Fresno Office

567 W. Shaw Ave., Suite A-3 Fresno, CA 93704 Phone:  559-243-8580

facebook Facebook

twitter Twitter

instagram Instagram

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

Home

About Shannon Biography Committees 12th Senate District Map

Biography

Committees

12th Senate District Map

Legislation My Legislation Bill Search Submit a Legislative Proposal

My Legislation

Bill Search

Submit a Legislative Proposal

Newsroom Releases / Editorials Photos

Releases / Editorials

Photos

Resources California Senate Fellows Program Coronavirus Information Education Register to Vote Unclaimed Property Veteran Resources

California Senate Fellows Program

Coronavirus Information

Education

Register to Vote

Unclaimed Property

Veteran Resources

Contact me My Offices E-mail the Senator Subscribe

My Offices

E-mail the Senator

Subscribe

Sen. Grove’s measure to increase penalties for child sex buyers signed into law by Governor Newsom

More News

View All

Breadcrumb

Aug 29
Senator Shannon Grove Celebrates Advancement of Key Bills for Special Education and Rural Healthcare, Expresses Disappointment Over Scrapping of Leno’s Law
Aug 27
VIDEO: Celebrity advocate Paris Hilton calls for passage of child protection measure ahead of key vote
Aug 25
Senator Shannon Grove and Assemblyman David Tangipa  Honor Retired NFL Quarterback, Derek Carr
Aug 21
Senator Shannon Grove opposes Democrats' attempt to override the will of California voters