Today, Sen. Marie Alvarado-Gil (R-Jackson ) announced that a total of $12.4 million of has been awarded to counties across Senate District 4 to help address homelessness. The funding comes from the California Department of Housing and Community Development’s (HCD) Homeless Housing and Assistance Prevention Program (HHAP).

“There’s no bigger crisis than homelessness in California, and these grants are a win for the rural communities in my district working hard to address it every day,” said Senator Alvarado-Gil ( R-Jackson ). “At the same time, the severe lack of transparency around homelessness spending can’t be ignored. As former Chair of Human Services, I’ve been a strong advocate for protecting HHAP funds and ensuring their effective use - I will continue to do so. I want to extend my sincere gratitude to HCD for these awards.”

Grants were awarded to the following counties in Senate District 4:

Amador, Calaveras, Mariposa, and Tuolumne - $2,059,676.24

Placer - $1,997,688.73

Inyo, Mono - $247,950.12

Merced - $2,209,009.84

Stanislaus - $5,891,632.09

Senator Alvarado-Gil has consistently championed commonsense programs to address homelessness, focusing on collaborative, practical solutions. In Stanislaus County, she has worked closely with local law enforcement to champion “hand-up” solutions over costly “hand-outs,” which further burden the state’s deficit.

A key program is the Modesto Police Department’s Community Health and Assistance Team (CHAT) . CHAT deploys trained outreach specialists to respond to mental health crises and other non-violent, non-criminal situations, connecting those in need with essential services. Senator Alvarado-Gil has also spent hours on ride-alongs with the department, witnessing the vital role peace officers play in linking the unhoused with local resources.

Senator Alvarado-Gil with Modesto PD’s CHAT Team.

Beyond her work with law enforcement, Senator Alvarado-Gil has partnered with local faith-based organizations to provide emergency food and intervention services for youth and families in crisis. Additionally, she has collaborated with Stanislaus County to ensure that public transportation provides reliable access to job centers, healthcare, and supportive nonprofits.

This year, Senator Alvarado-Gil coauthored Senate Bill 1011 (Jones), aimed at clearing encampments along sidewalks near parks and schools while also providing unhoused individuals with treatment and support services.

In March, she spent a full day experiencing life as someone experiencing homelessness in Stanislaus County, interacting with constituents in shelters and encampments. This experience deepened her insight into the daily challenges that homeless veterans and individuals with mental health issues face.

Senator Alvarado-Gil talks with her constituents experiencing homelessness at an encampment in Stanislaus County in the Central Valley.

“That day really opened my eyes to the many layers of the homelessness crisis. I learned firsthand that there’s no one-size-fits-all solution. It’s a complex issue, but with a focus on accountability and compassion I believe we can create pathways to stability,” Alvarado-Gil concluded.

Click HERE to learn more about the HHAP grant program.

Capitol

Modesto

1020 15th Street, Ste 21 Modesto, CA 95354 Phone: (209) 576-6001

El Dorado Hills

4364 Town Center Blvd, Suite 313 El Dorado Hills, CA 95762 Phone: (916) 933-8680

Privacy Policy

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

<d

Home

About Marie Biography District Map

Biography

District Map

Legislation Bill Search

Bill Search

Newsroom Press Releases Op-Eds

Press Releases

Op-Eds

Contact Me District Offices Email the Senator Scheduling Requests State Resources Subscribe

District Offices

Email the Senator

Scheduling Requests

State Resources

Subscribe

Sen. Marie Alvarado-Gil secures 12.4M in homelessness funding for Senate District 4’s rural communities

Breadcrumb