Sen. Marie Alvarado-Gil ( R-Jackson ) has joined Senate and Assembly Republicans in urging Governor Gavin Newsom to call a special session on the Southern California wildfires and statewide insurance crisis.

“As fires were raging, California Democrats’ priority was to throw more money toward ‘Trump proofing’ the state. With homes destroyed, thousands displaced, and an insurance system on the brink of collapse, this crisis is the only thing that matters,” said Sen. Alvarado-Gil. “The ability to get homeowners insurance is perhaps the biggest challenge my constituents face. As someone on the FAIR Plan, I’m focused on making sure rural Californians are supported and our firefighters have the resources they need to protect life and property.”

California spends $6 billion to $9 billion annually on wildfire response, yet the 2024-25 budget allocated just $200 million for prevention. Meanwhile, the California FAIR Plan faces a potential statewide claims exposure exceeding $400 billion, further destabilizing the state’s already fragile insurance market.

In a letter delivered to Governor Newsom, Republicans outlined the following actions:

Expedite Permitting for Wildfire Prevention Projects - Fast-track critical projects such as controlled burns and post-fire reconstruction to mitigate fire risks efficiently.

Streamline Environmental Reviews for Fire Safety Efforts - Introduce targeted reforms to the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) for wildfire prevention initiatives, including underground powerlines and constructing emergency egress routes for community safety.

Enhanced Criminal Penalties - Create enhanced criminal penalties for both arson and negligent fires.

Home-Hardening Incentives and Assistance - Use a combination of tax credits, deductions, grants, and loans to help Californians afford the home-hardening upgrades necessary to protect their property.

Increased Funding for Wildfire Prevention - Allocate resources to local governments and conservation districts with firsthand knowledge and strategies for effective wildfire prevention and safety projects.

Insurance Market Transparency - Provide a clear evaluation of the California FAIR Plan and the broader insurance industry, outlining necessary steps to stabilize the market and attract private insurers back into the state. This includes evaluating how current and proposed policies can restore confidence in the California insurance landscape.

The devastating wildfires have exposed years of backwards priorities under California’s one-party rule. After switching parties, Senator Alvarado-Gil’s two vital bills addressing wildfire impacts and water infrastructure were killed. SB 945 would have created a database to track the health effects of wildfire smoke, and SB 1088 would have established a program to provide state funding to improve fire resilience in rural communities.

“California Democrats have failed to prioritize the safety and well-being of Californians for years, and we are witnessing the cost. They hold all the power. I urge them and the governor to act now,” Alvarado-Gil concluded.

Click HERE to read the full letter.

Capitol

Modesto

1020 15th Street, Ste 21 Modesto, CA 95354 Phone: (209) 576-6001

El Dorado Hills

4364 Town Center Blvd, Suite 313 El Dorado Hills, CA 95762 Phone: (916) 933-8680

Privacy Policy

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

<d

Home

About Marie Biography District Map

Biography

District Map

Legislation Bill Search

Bill Search

Newsroom Press Releases Op-Eds

Press Releases

Op-Eds

Contact Me District Offices Email the Senator Scheduling Requests State Resources Subscribe

District Offices

Email the Senator

Scheduling Requests

State Resources

Subscribe

Sen. Alvarado-Gil joins call for special session on wildfires

Breadcrumb