Ahead of Small Business Saturday this weekend, Sen. Marie Alvarado-Gil ( R-Jackson ) is excited to announce the Senator’s Choice Award, a new campaign to recognize small and local businesses across Senate District 4 for their contributions to their community and economy.

"This weekend and throughout the holidays, I strongly encourage people to shop local and support our small businesses. Whether it’s contributing to the local economy, or giving back through acts of service, they are the heartbeat of our communities,” said Senator Alvarado-Gil. “With the Senator’s Choice Award, I’m looking to shine a light on the hardworking entrepreneurs and families that make our district thrive. I am grateful for all they do, and I am proud to advocate for them in Sacramento.”

On Friday, November 22, a letter announcing the Senator’s Choice Award was sent to chambers of commerce across Senate District 4. Beginning this December, and continuing throughout 2025, Senator Alvarado-Gil will highlight dozens of her favorite businesses each month - ones she’s used personally or that have made significant contributions to their community.

Recipients of the award will receive a personal visit from Sen. Alvarado-Gil or a team member to present a framed 8x10 certificate of recognition, a dedicated spotlight in a press release, and coverage on the senator’s newsletter and social media platforms.

Additionally, businesses not already members of their local chamber of commerce will receive a one-year membership sponsored by Sen. Alvarado-Gil, further supporting their growth and engagement in their community. Award winners will also have opportunities to showcase their achievements at special events, grand openings, and other gatherings throughout the district.

“I’m looking forward to launching this fun new recognition and celebrating the very best of Senate District 4. Stay tuned for more to come!” Alvarado-Gil concluded.

Capitol

Modesto

1020 15th Street, Ste 21 Modesto, CA 95354 Phone: (209) 576-6001

El Dorado Hills

4364 Town Center Blvd, Suite 313 El Dorado Hills, CA 95762 Phone: (916) 933-8680

Privacy Policy

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

<d

Home

About Marie Biography District Map

Biography

District Map

Legislation Bill Search

Bill Search

Newsroom Press Releases Op-Eds

Press Releases

Op-Eds

Contact Me District Offices Email the Senator Scheduling Requests State Resources Subscribe

District Offices

Email the Senator

Scheduling Requests

State Resources

Subscribe

Sen. Marie Alvarado-Gil to shine a light on small business excellence with “Senator’s Choice Award”

Breadcrumb