Today Senator Suzette Martinez Valladares (R-Santa Clarita) announced that her bill (SB 571) to increase penalties for looting and impersonating law enforcement during a state of emergency has passed out of the Senate with unanimous bipartisan support. The bipartisan bill is jointly authored by Senator Bob Archuleta (D-Pico Rivera) and Senator Jesse Arreguin (D-Berkeley).

“In those moments of heartbreak and loss during a natural disaster or other emergency, no one should have to worry about falling victim a second time—to crime, to exploitation, or to opportunistic criminals who prey on the vulnerable,” said Senator Valladares.

During the recent fires we saw criminals preying on victims of the fires by looting and even impersonating first responders to gain access to impacted properties. This kind of criminal activity that further victimizes Californians at their most vulnerable must not be tolerated and these opportunistic criminals must be deterred and prosecuted to the fullest extent of the law.

﻿ Senate Bill 571 will make it a felony to loot and enhances the penalty for impersonating first responders during a state of emergency. The bill now moves to the Assembly for consideration.

“Our duty—our moral obligation—is to stand with those who are suffering, to protect people in their most vulnerable moments. This bill matters deeply because it’s about justice, and it sends a firm, unmistakable message: if you prey on disaster survivors, you will be held accountable. This legislation is also about protection, prevention, and showing victims that they are not alone when they need us most,” concluded Senator Valladares.

Capitol

Valencia Office

25060 West Ave Stanford, Suite 130 Valencia, CA 91355 Phone: (661) 257-1204

Lancaster Office

42505 10th St West Suite 109 Lancaster, CA 93534 Phone: (661) 729-6232

Adelanto Office

11600 Air Expressway Adelanto, CA 92301 Phone: (760) 246-2911

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

<d

Home

About Suzette Biography Committees District Map

Biography

Committees

District Map

Legislation My Legislation Bill Search

My Legislation

Bill Search

Newsroom Releases / Opinions Media Kit

Releases / Opinions

Media Kit

Contact Me Email the Senator My Offices

Email the Senator

My Offices

Sen Valladares’ Bill to Increase Penalties for Crimes During State of Emergency Gets Senate Approval

Breadcrumb