In honor of Women’s History Month, Senator Marie Alvarado-Gil ( R-Jackson ) is proud to announce Turlock Mayor Amy Bublak as Senate District 4’s Woman of the Year.

“Amy’s dedication to public service and commitment to the people of Turlock make her a standout leader in Senate District 4,” said Senator Marie Alvarado-Gil. “As the city’s first female mayor and a retired police officer, she leads with integrity, champions public safety, and works tirelessly to strengthen her city. Her leadership is an inspiration to women across our region, and I am proud to recognize her as Woman of the Year. Congratulations!”

A Turlock resident for over 30 years, Mayor Amy Bublak began her public service career in law enforcement, serving more than two decades with the Richmond and Modesto police departments. After retiring, she transitioned into local government and in 2008 was elected to the Turlock City Council. She made history in 2018 as Turlock’s first female mayor, and was re-elected in 2022 for a second term. Throughout her career, she has been a tireless advocate for fiscal responsibility, public safety, economic growth, and government transparency.

Bublak holds degrees in Sociology, Criminal Justice, and Public Administration. Her leadership also extends beyond the city council and mayor’s office, having served as President of the Stanislaus County Red Cross, Vice Mayor of Turlock, and Chairperson of the Stanislaus Local Agency Formation Commission (LAFCO). She was also appointed by President Donald Trump to the Social Problems Working Group, a subcommittee of the Presidential Commission on Law Enforcement and the Administration of Justice.

“I am deeply honored to be recognized as Woman of the Year. My heartfelt gratitude goes to Senator Alvarado-Gil for this recognition and to my colleagues for their steadfast support,” said Mayor Bublak . “This honor is a reflection of the incredible work we accomplish together, and I am truly grateful to be part of such a dedicated community.”

On Monday, March 10, Mayor Bublak will be in Sacramento for the legislature’s annual Woman of the Year ceremony, where each member honors their district’s selected Woman of the Year. As part of this event, Senator Alvarado-Gil will formally recognize Mayor Bublak as Senate District 4’s Woman of the Year on the Senate Floor.

Capitol

Modesto

1020 15th Street, Ste 21 Modesto, CA 95354 Phone: (209) 576-6001

El Dorado Hills

4364 Town Center Blvd, Suite 313 El Dorado Hills, CA 95762 Phone: (916) 933-8680

Privacy Policy

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

<d

Home

About Marie Biography District Map

Biography

District Map

Legislation Bill Search

Bill Search

Newsroom Press Releases Op-Eds

Press Releases

Op-Eds

Contact Me District Offices Email the Senator Scheduling Requests State Resources Subscribe

District Offices

Email the Senator

Scheduling Requests

State Resources

Subscribe

Sen. Alvarado-Gil announces Turlock Mayor Amy Bublak as Senate District 4's Woman of the Year

Breadcrumb