Recently, Senator Steven Choi (R- Irvine), the Vice Chair of California’s Senate Elections and Constitutional Amendments Committee, introduced legislation focused on eliminating voter fraud and ensuring the integrity of every vote cast in state elections. These proposals seek to comprehensively restore local control for voter identification decisions, clean up voter rolls through improved address confirmation, expedite vote tabulation by prohibiting the counting of ballots received after Election Day, and shorten the election ballot counting period to provide fast and accurate election results.

“This bill package will ensure that California elections are fast, efficient, and secure. It is unacceptable that our state takes more than a month to count ballots while states with a fraction of our resources can project results on Election Night,” stated Senator Choi . “We have the means to ensure timely ballot submission, streamline the counting process, and provide much-needed election integrity to restore public trust in our elections process. California has a responsibility to enhance the integrity of our elections, while also ensuring every vote is counted as quickly and efficiently as possible.”

This legislation will improve voter confidence in our election process while maintaining ease and accessibility of voting for all eligible citizens. The bill package includes:

SB 405: Restoring Local Control for Voter Identification Decisions

Repeals SB 1174 (Min, 2024) to restore local governments’ choice to require voters to show identification before voting in local elections.

Promotes confidence by allowing local election officials and voters to work together to implement tailored voter ID measures to meet the specific needs and circumstances of their communities.

SB 406: Ballots by Election Day

Will improve efficiency and expediency by requiring all ballots to be received by election officials no later than Election Day, with a small exception for military members and voters overseas.

Under existing law, vote-by-mail ballots in California can be accepted for up to seven days after Election Day, delaying the processing of election results and election certification.

California voters deserve a reasonable timeline of when to expect final election results.

SB 407: Shorter Elections Vote Counting Period and Certification Deadline

Will reduce the vote counting period and the Secretary of State’s certification deadline.

By streamlining the ballot counting process, this provision ensures that election results are delivered faster, enhancing the public’s confidence and minimizing delays in determining the outcome of elections.

SB 408: Improved County Voter Roll Address Confirmation

Will ensure the accuracy of voter rolls by requiring county election officials to contract with USPS for change-of-address data, and mail alternative residency postcards to registered voters if they have not voted, updated their address, name, or party preference within the past four years.

This bill aims to “clean up” voter rolls, and save county elections officials from mailing ballots to voters that no longer live in their county.

It is expected that the bill package will be eligible for consideration in the Senate Elections Committee in March. Supporters are encouraged to reach out to their State Senator to voice support.

Click here for more information on SB 405 , SB 406 , SB 407 , and SB 408 .

Capitol

District

3200 El Camino Real, Suite 230 Irvine, CA 92602 Phone: (714) 544-1035

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

<d

Home

About Dr. Choi Biography Committees

Biography

Committees

Legislation

Newsroom Releases / Opinions Important Updates Audio / Video Photo Gallery

Releases / Opinions

Important Updates

Audio / Video

Photo Gallery

Contact Me District Internship Program District Map Email the Senator My Offices

District Internship Program

District Map

Email the Senator

My Offices

Sen. Choi Introduces Election Integrity Package to Strengthen Public Trust and Eliminate Fraud

Breadcrumb