Sen. Marie Alvarado-Gil ( R-Jackson) is being commended for her commitment to protecting California’s ranchers amid a rise in wolf populations. Earlier this year, Senator Alvarado-Gil successfully secured $600,000 in the state budget to fund the California Department of Fish and Wildlife’s (CDFW) Wolf-Livestock Compensation Program, ensuring ranchers get the compensation and support they need when wolves prey on their livestock.

“The return of wolves to California marks an important milestone for wildlife restoration. But it brings challenges for our hardworking ranchers, who are essential in feeding our communities and supporting the state’s agriculture industry,” said Senator Alvarado-Gil. “This program gives them the help they need to protect their livestock and their livelihoods as we navigate these changes. I’m proud to advocate on their behalf, and I’m committed to ensuring they have resources they need to thrive.”

In 2021, the California State Legislature allocated $3 million to the California Department of Fish and Wildlife (CDFW) to create a Wolf-Livestock Compensation Pilot Program aimed at reducing the effects of wolves on livestock producers. The program focuses on three key areas of support: addressing direct livestock losses, implementing nonlethal deterrents, and providing incentives through a “Pay for Presence” approach.

As of June 30, 2024 , California's wolf population has grown to at least 63 wolves, including 30 new pups, with the discovery of an eighth pack called the “Diamond Pack.” This is a significant increase from 44 wolves at the end of 2023. However, as the wolf population rises, so do attacks on livestock. In 2024, there have been 39 confirmed livestock kills from 33 wolf attacks, marking a 62% increase from last year.

Senator Alvarado-Gil’s efforts garnered praise from The California Cattlemen’s Association, The California Farm Bureau, and Defenders of Wildlife:

“Senator Alvarado-Gil and her team are to be commended for their work to secure renewed funding for the Wolf-Livestock Compensation Program, which provides important benefits for the recovery of wolves in California,” said Pamela Flick, California Program Director for Defenders of Wildlife. “The return of gray wolves to California is a remarkable success story, and it’s critical that we continue to fund this crucial program to compensate livestock producers for economic losses determined to be caused by wolves.”

“As California’s wolf population has increased, so too have the losses of calves and other livestock from wolf predation, demonstrating the need for a robust compensation program in the state. The California Cattlemen’s Association thanks Senator Marie Alvarado-Gil for her work this year to secure renewed funding for CDFW’s Wolf-Livestock Compensation Program, ensuring that the cattle ranchers most impacted by gray wolves can remain viable to continue their stewardship of the land,” said Kirk Wilbur on behalf of the California Cattlemen’s Association.

“California’s Wolf-Livestock Compensation Program is a national model for reducing conflict between wildlife and ranchers. As the state’s wolf population grows, so too will the need for continued funding, said Steven Fenaroli on behalf of the California Farm Bureau . “We appreciate Senator Alvarado-Gil and the legislature for their swift action in allocating resources during this challenging budget season.”

Click HERE to learn more about the Wolf-Livestock Compensation Program .

Capitol

Modesto

1020 15th Street, Ste 21 Modesto, CA 95354 Phone: (209) 576-6001

El Dorado Hills

4364 Town Center Blvd, Suite 313 El Dorado Hills, CA 95762 Phone: (916) 933-8680

Privacy Policy

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

<d

Home

About Marie Biography District Map

Biography

District Map

Legislation Bill Search

Bill Search

Newsroom Press Releases Op-Eds

Press Releases

Op-Eds

Contact Me District Offices Email the Senator Scheduling Requests State Resources Subscribe

District Offices

Email the Senator

Scheduling Requests

State Resources

Subscribe

Sen. Marie Alvarado-Gil praised for her efforts to protect California ranchers

Breadcrumb