Determined to protect California families from more rising costs, Sen. Marie Alvarado-Gil ( R-Jackson ) is coauthoring legislation to repeal a recent California Air Resources Board (CARB) decision that is projected to raise gas prices by 65 cents to 85 cents per gallon.

“Simply put, my rural and Central Valley constituents can’t afford any increase in gas prices. The impact will be felt in every household, making it harder for families to take their kids to school, go to work, and put food on the table,” said Senator Alvarado-Gil . “This hike was approved just a few weeks ago by an unelected board of millionaire bureaucrats, whose agenda is completely out of touch with the realities of normal Californians. If the progressive legislature is serious about making life more affordable, then passing this bill should be a no-brainer.”

On November 8, 2024 CARB adopted amendments to its Low-Carbon Fuel Standard (LCFS), which is set to impose more costs on oil companies in California and lead to hig her prices for consumers. While CARB initially projected a 47 cents per gallon increase, it later retracted that estimate and refused to provide an updated figure. A report from the Kleinman Center for Energy Policy at the University of Pennsylvania now estimates the price increase could range from 65 cents to 85 cents per gallon.

Due to continued silence from CARB regarding the true cost of the Low Carbon Fuel Standard (LCFS) amendments, Sen. Alvarado-Gil joined Senate Republicans in urging the board to postpone the November 8 vote. She also encouraged her constituents to sign a petition calling for the same. Despite these calls for transparency and delay, CARB moved forward and approved the amendments.

Senate Bill 2 (Jones) would only repeal the November 8 decision, and would not eliminate the LCFS program or the board’s clean air initiatives. If approved, it would take effect immediately.

“This is our opportunity as a legislature to reclaim our power and stop a bad policy from making life in California even more expensive,” Alvarado-Gil concluded.

Capitol

Modesto

1020 15th Street, Ste 21 Modesto, CA 95354 Phone: (209) 576-6001

El Dorado Hills

4364 Town Center Blvd, Suite 313 El Dorado Hills, CA 95762 Phone: (916) 933-8680

Privacy Policy

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

<d

Home

About Marie Biography District Map

Biography

District Map

Legislation Bill Search

Bill Search

Newsroom Press Releases Op-Eds

Press Releases

Op-Eds

Contact Me District Offices Email the Senator Scheduling Requests State Resources Subscribe

District Offices

Email the Senator

Scheduling Requests

State Resources

Subscribe

Sen. Marie Alvarado-Gil joins effort to stop 65-cent gas price hike

Breadcrumb