Sen. Marie Alvarado-Gil ( R-Jackson ) delivered a letter to the California Air Resources Board, urging it to postpone its Nov. 8 vote on proposed changes to the Low-Carbon Fuel Standard (LCFS), which could raise gas prices as high as 47 cents per gallon next year.

“Families in my district are already struggling to get by with California’s high cost of living, so the lack of answers about a program that could raise gas prices by nearly 50 cents is unacceptable ,” said Senator Alvarado-Gil. “As legislators, we are accountable to our constituents, but who holds these unelected boards accountable? The right thing for CARB to do is to postpone its hearing until it can provide clear information on how this will impact people’s everyday lives.”

In the letter, Alvarado-Gil and her Republican colleagues expressed serious concern regarding CARB’s refusal to disclose any analysis of how the proposed amendments to the LCFS will affect gas prices:

“California motorists are currently paying $1.50 more per gallon than the national average. If CARB wants public support for its environmental initiatives, it must provide detailed information regarding the costs and benefits of its proposals.”

Last year, CARB projected the LCFS could raise gas prices by up to 47 cents per gallon, but has recently downplayed that estimate. A more recent report suggests that the price increase could range from 65 to 85 cents per gallon. The letter goes on to highlight CARB’s silence regarding updates on potential cost increases:

“Without specific information from CARB, it is reasonable to assume that its adoption of these amended regulations will directly increase gas prices by up to $0.65 in the near term, up to $0.85 per gallon by 2030, and up to $1.50 per gallon by 2035, as outlined in the Cullenward report.”

The Nov. 8 hearing comes on the heels of the passage of ABx2-1, which gives the California Energy Commission (CEC) the authority to require oil refiners to maintain minimum gasoline and diesel inventories. Senator Alvarado-Gil voted no on the measure, pointing out the policy is also likely to contribute to higher gas prices due to more regulations on refiners.

“Transparency isn’t just a buzzword; it’s essential for accurately representing the needs of our communities. In addition to holding off on the Nov. 8 vote, I also urge CARB to step up and provide all the necessary information for the public to see,” Alvarado-Gil concluded.

Click HERE to read the full letter.

Capitol

Modesto

1020 15th Street, Ste 21 Modesto, CA 95354 Phone: (209) 576-6001

El Dorado Hills

4364 Town Center Blvd, Suite 313 El Dorado Hills, CA 95762 Phone: (916) 933-8680

Privacy Policy

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

<d

Home

About Marie Biography District Map

Biography

District Map

Legislation Bill Search

Bill Search

Newsroom Press Releases Op-Eds

Press Releases

Op-Eds

Contact Me District Offices Email the Senator Scheduling Requests State Resources Subscribe

District Offices

Email the Senator

Scheduling Requests

State Resources

Subscribe

Sen. Alvarado-Gil demands transparency from CARB on hidden gas price hike

Breadcrumb