Senator Shannon Grove ( R-Bakersfield ) is proud to announce Senate Bill 1203 and Senate Constitutional Amendment 9 , companion measures that will establish the Education Flex Account Act of 2024. This forward-thinking legislation aims to improve K-12 education in California by providing parents and students with greater choice in selecting the school that best meets their educational needs.

Under the current education system in California, students are assigned to schools based on geographic location, limiting options for families seeking alternative educational opportunities. Despite increased spending per student, California continues to rank behind the national average in academic achievement, with glaring disparities in performance among students of color.

Senate Bill 1203 and SCA 9 seek to address these challenges by creating the Education Flex Account, which will empower parents to choose the accredited school that best fits their child's needs. By reallocating a portion of existing state education funds, students will have access to $8,000 through the Education Flex Account and $16,000 through the Special Education Flex Account for students with special needs, to be used towards tuition and other education expenses. Any unused funds will be returned to the General Fund to support K-12 education the following year.

"This legislation represents a critical step towards providing California families, including families with special education students, with the educational options they need and deserve," said Senator Shannon Grove . "By empowering parents to choose the best educational environment for their children, we are ensuring that every student has access to a high-quality education that prepares them for a lifetime of success."

"Public education in the United States is failing our children and not preparing them to be civically minded adults in the 21st-century economy. This problem is even more pronounced in California where the National Assessment of Educational Progress consistently ranks our state’s students in the bottom tiers of academic achievement and lower than the national average for most grade levels. Parents should have the tools and resources necessary to provide the best education opportunities for their kids regardless of their zip code. That is why California Policy Center fully supports SB 1203 and SCA 9 and looks forward to making Education Flex Accounts a reality for all kids.” – Lance Christensen, California Policy Center

“I have been a high school social studies teacher for 17 years across very diverse schools (public and private) across Los Angeles, CA. I have seen the way that children flourish or wither depending on their school culture and environment. I also have seen how impoverished families struggle to make tuition at private schools but do whatever they can because they have experienced what the alternative is at their local public school and they know how that will severely hinder their child's learning. Giving parents more autonomy and choice in their childrens' education is something that I believe is crucially important and I stand in support of this bill that will help move things in that direction.” –William Reusch, Teacher

With the Education Flex Account Act of 2024, California is taking a significant stride towards a more child-centered and effective approach to K-12 education.

Senate Bill 1203 and Senate Constitutional Amendment 9 will be heard by the Senate Education Committee on April 24 th .

Capitol Office

1021 O Street, Room 7150 Sacramento, CA 95814 Phone: (916) 651-4012 Fax: (916) 651-4916

Bakersfield Office

5701 Truxtun Ave., Suite 150 Bakersfield, CA 93309 Phone: (661) 323-0443 Fax: (661) 323-0446

Fresno Office

567 W. Shaw Ave., Suite A-3 Fresno, CA 93704 Phone:  559-243-8580

facebook Facebook

twitter Twitter

instagram Instagram

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

Home

About Shannon Biography Committees 12th Senate District Map

Biography

Committees

12th Senate District Map

Legislation My Legislation Bill Search Submit a Legislative Proposal

My Legislation

Bill Search

Submit a Legislative Proposal

Newsroom Releases / Editorials Photos

Releases / Editorials

Photos

Resources California Senate Fellows Program Coronavirus Information Education Register to Vote Unclaimed Property Veteran Resources

California Senate Fellows Program

Coronavirus Information

Education

Register to Vote

Unclaimed Property

Veteran Resources

Contact me My Offices E-mail the Senator Subscribe

My Offices

E-mail the Senator

Subscribe

Sen. Grove announces school choice measure, flexible spending for flexible learning

More News

View All

Breadcrumb

Aug 29
Senator Shannon Grove Celebrates Advancement of Key Bills for Special Education and Rural Healthcare, Expresses Disappointment Over Scrapping of Leno’s Law
Aug 27
VIDEO: Celebrity advocate Paris Hilton calls for passage of child protection measure ahead of key vote
Aug 25
Senator Shannon Grove and Assemblyman David Tangipa  Honor Retired NFL Quarterback, Derek Carr
Aug 21
Senator Shannon Grove opposes Democrats' attempt to override the will of California voters