Last week, Senator Steven Choi (R-Irvine) introduced Senate Bill 267, which seeks to support California educators by offering them a tax credit for out-of-pocket school supply expenses.

Surveys conducted by the U.S. Department of Education show that 94% of educators purchase school supplies for their classrooms, spending anywhere from $300-$500 annually.

“Teachers who dip into their own paychecks to ensure students have the resources they need to succeed and thrive deserve relief. As a former school board member, I recognize the dedication of our local educators, and this bill is designed to provide them with tangible support for their efforts,” stated Senator Steven Choi.

SB 267 would ease the financial burden on teachers who often resort to spending personal funds to provide essential classroom materials by allowing them to claim a tax credit each year equal to the amount spent on school supplies, up to $250.

Senator Rosilicie Ochoa Bogh, vice chair of the Senate Education Committee and joint author of the bill said, “Our educators pour their hearts into shaping the future of our children. This bill reflects our commitment to supporting teachers by offering meaningful financial relief, ensuring they have the tools they need to help every student succeed.”

If supporting educators in the classroom is truly a priority, California must fulfill its responsibility to those who prepare our future generations.

It is expected that SB 267 will be eligible for consideration in the Senate Education committee in early March. Supporters are encouraged to reach out to their State Senator to voice support.

Click here for language on the bill.

Capitol

District

3200 El Camino Real, Suite 230 Irvine, CA 92602 Phone: (714) 544-1035

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

<d

Home

About Dr. Choi Biography Committees

Biography

Committees

Legislation

Newsroom Releases / Opinions Important Updates Audio / Video Photo Gallery

Releases / Opinions

Important Updates

Audio / Video

Photo Gallery

Contact Me District Internship Program District Map Email the Senator My Offices

District Internship Program

District Map

Email the Senator

My Offices

Sen. Choi Introduces Measure to Give Teachers a Tax Credit

Breadcrumb