Sen. Marie Alvarado-Gil ( R-Jackson ) announced today that she successfully secured $82 million in state funding from the California Transportation Commission (CTC) to support two critical infrastructure projects in Stanislaus County that will improve safety, mobility, and quality of life for underserved communities.

In letters sent to CTC Executive Director Tanisha Taylor last November , Senator Alvarado-Gil urged full support for the Seventh Street Bridge Replacement Project and the State Route 132 West Gates to Dakota Project. Last week, the CTC unanimously approved $15 million for the bridge and $67 million for the SR 132 extension, closing the funding gap and allowing both projects to move forward.

“Our community has waited long enough,” said Senator Alvarado-Gil. “These are more than just road projects. They are investments that ensure families can get to schools, jobs, essential services, and that first responders can save lives. I thank Executive Director Taylor and the California Transportation Commission for recognizing the urgency and committing the necessary funding. I will keep fighting at the state level to champion the public safety and infrastructure needs that matter most to our communities.”

The Seventh Street Bridge, built in 1916, is severely deteriorated and is no longer safe for heavy vehicles, including emergency responders and transit services. Replacing it has been a priority for local officials, but the project lacked the full funding needed to move forward. With this $15 million state grant, construction is now set to begin later this year.

The State Route 132 extension will build five new miles of expressway west of Modesto, easing congestion and improving safety on a corridor that serves thousands of drivers and carries significant freight from Central Valley farms. The project will take pressure off local streets in disadvantaged areas and create a more efficient connection to Highway 33 and Interstate 5.

Click HERE to read the Senator’s support letter for the Seventh Street Bridge Project.

Click HERE to read the Senator’s support letter for the State Route 132 West Gates to Dakota Project.

Capitol

Modesto

1020 15th Street, Ste 21 Modesto, CA 95354 Phone: (209) 576-6001

El Dorado Hills

4364 Town Center Blvd, Suite 313 El Dorado Hills, CA 95762 Phone: (916) 933-8680

Privacy Policy

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

<d

Home

About Marie Biography District Map

Biography

District Map

Legislation Bill Search

Bill Search

Newsroom Press Releases Op-Eds

Press Releases

Op-Eds

Contact Me District Offices Email the Senator Scheduling Requests State Resources Subscribe

District Offices

Email the Senator

Scheduling Requests

State Resources

Subscribe

Sen. Marie Alvarado-Gil secures $82 million to improve safety and quality of life in underserved Stanislaus County communities

Breadcrumb