Sen. Marie Alvarado-Gil ( R-Jackson ) is pleased to announce that her persistent efforts to secure funding for infrastructure improvements at California's fairgrounds have resulted in a $40 million allocation for upgrades to enhance emergency response capabilities at sites across the state.

"More than just venues for entertainment, California’s fairgrounds serve a vital function during times of crisis, providing shelter for families and animals, supplies, and essential support. The recent wildfires highlight the urgent need for improved emergency preparedness, yet many fairgrounds are in disrepair, said Senator Alvarado-Gil . “By securing this funding, we can ensure they are equipped and ready when our communities need them most. I thank California Department of Food and Agriculture for joining me to address this important issue."

For decades, California’s 78 fairs were supported through horse racing licensing fees, supplemented by General Fund resources allocated in the state budget. However, in 2009, horse racing fees were redirected to the general fund, and supplemental payments were eliminated in the 2011-2012 state budget. This shift created a significant revenue gap, forcing fairs to find alternative ways to compensate for the loss. As a result, many fairgrounds have fallen behind on critical maintenance, requiring urgent repairs to restroom facilities, HVAC systems, roofs, and other essential areas. Meanwhile, the demand for these venues has grown, especially as emergency response centers during times of crisis.

Last year, Senator Alvarado-Gil authored SB 1261 to address this problem, but the bill was unfortunately killed. Recognizing the ongoing challenges, this year she requested that the California Department of Food and Agriculture (CDFA) explore ways to access fairground funding through the Clean Air Bond Act (SB 867).

In response, CDFA Secretary Karen Ross confirmed that $40 million would be allocated from the Clean Air Bond Act to support emergency response upgrades for fairgrounds across the state.

“Our goal is to maximize the use of the funds to support as many fairgrounds as possible by helping them repair and improve their basic operational infrastructure, thus ensuring their readiness to continue serving the people of California during emergencies,” said Secretary Ross .

“This funding is a step in the right direction, but there’s still much more to be done. I will continue fighting for the necessary investments to ensure state fairgrounds can fully meet the growing demands of emergency response, and are prepared to protect Californians,” Alvarado-Gil concluded.

Capitol

Modesto

1020 15th Street, Ste 21 Modesto, CA 95354 Phone: (209) 576-6001

El Dorado Hills

4364 Town Center Blvd, Suite 313 El Dorado Hills, CA 95762 Phone: (916) 933-8680

Privacy Policy

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

<d

Home

About Marie Biography District Map

Biography

District Map

Legislation Bill Search

Bill Search

Newsroom Press Releases Op-Eds

Press Releases

Op-Eds

Contact Me District Offices Email the Senator Scheduling Requests State Resources Subscribe

District Offices

Email the Senator

Scheduling Requests

State Resources

Subscribe

Sen. Alvarado-Gil’s persistent efforts drive $40M for emergency preparedness at state fairgrounds

Breadcrumb