In honor of Women’s History Month, Senator Steven Choi (R- Irvine), recognized the remarkable contributions of Doris Cortes from Aliso Viejo for Woman of the Year from the 37 th Senate District. In addition to this prestigious recognition, Choi also honored 13 other women for Women of distinction, celebrating their outstanding achievements and dedication to their communities across Orange County. These honorees represent the diverse and inspiring women who shape California’s future.

“This group of women embodies what it means to lead with heart, serve with integrity, and make lasting change,” said Senator Choi. “We honor not just their achievements, but the example they set for future generations.”

In addition to Doris, Senator Choi hosted a Women of Distinction event at Irvine City Hall to celebrate the remarkable contributions of women across the district. As part of this celebration, Senator Choi recognized 13 outstanding women for their exceptional impact in the fields of education, healthcare, community service, and civic leadership. The event served as a powerful moment of unity, gratitude, and celebration for the work being done to uplift Orange County Communities.

Representing the strength, resilience, and compassion that uplift and inspire our region the honorees included:

Christine Stellino (Placentia): Executive Director of HIS-OC, empowering families facing homelessness.

Dr. Cynthia Olivo (Fullerton): President of Fullerton College and advocate for first-generation students.

Dr. Katarzyna Tesmer (Anaheim): Acclaimed pediatrician and humanitarian.

Jill Kuli (Villa Park): Longtime community leader and tradition keeper.

Jen Kohlenberger (Tustin): Mental health advocate and founder of Building resilience.

Ellen Pais (Irvine): Executive Director of Pretend City Museum, promoting education and access.

Nikita Genatra (Lake Forest): Education advocate and community fundraiser.

Bunni Ickes (Laguna Niguel): Community champion and volunteer leader in South OC.

Lauren Becker (South OC): Director of Braille Institute, expanding support for the visually impaired.

Penny Lambright (Orange): Founder of Patriots and Paws, serving veterans and families.

Susan Wan Ross (Yorba Linda): Philanthropic leader supporting youth, veterans, and city initiatives.

Dr. Eunice Kang (Costa Mesa): Political science professor mentoring civic-minded youth.

Dr. Elvera Cravagan (Costa Mesa): Centenarian and retired physician who fled Germany during Hitler’s reign, and continues to inspire through wisdom and service.

“I am deeply honored to be named Woman of the year for the 37 th Senate District,” stated Doris Cortes. This recognition is not just about me, it is about the incredible people I have had the privilege to work alongside and the community that inspires me every day. I hope this honor encourages more women to step into leadership roles and continue making a difference wherever they are needed.”

A video of the floor ceremony can be found here and photographs of the events can be found here .

Capitol

District

3200 El Camino Real, Suite 230 Irvine, CA 92602 Phone: (714) 544-1035

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

<d

Home

About Dr. Choi Biography Committees

Biography

Committees

Legislation

Newsroom Releases / Opinions Important Updates Audio / Video Photo Gallery

Releases / Opinions

Important Updates

Audio / Video

Photo Gallery

Contact Me District Internship Program District Map Email the Senator My Offices

District Internship Program

District Map

Email the Senator

My Offices

Sen. Choi Recognizes his 37th Senate District Woman of the Year and Women of Distinction throughout the County

Breadcrumb