Senator Strickland and Glenn Gray, CEO of PMMC, the recipient of the 36th Senate District nonprofit of the year award. Photo courtesy: California State Senate Click here to download a full-size image.

Senator Tony Strickland ( R-Huntington Beach ) is pleased to announce the Pacific Marine Mammal Center (PMMC) as the non-profit of the year for California Senate District 36. Glenn Gray, CEO of the PMMC, attended the 2025 California Nonprofit of the Year annual luncheon in Sacramento to receive the recognition.

“As a lifelong beach goer and animal lover, I want to ensure that our ocean is protected from harm, so I cannot think of a better organization than the Pacific Marine Mammal Center as the nonprofit of the year for California Senate District 36,” said Senator Strickland . “In the heart of Laguna Beach, this center inspires ocean stewardship day in and day out. Oftentimes, if a sea mammal washes ashore along the 52 miles of Orange County’s coastal communities, you can find Glenn and his team of experts lending a helping hand and guidance.”

“Thank you Senator Strickland for the amazing recognition as the non-profit of the year in your district,” said Glenn Gray, CEO of the PMMC . “At the PMMC, we appreciate your astute leadership in Sacramento fighting for the citizens of your district and ensuring that our work for ocean stewardship won’t go unnoticed.”

PMMC is the only center in Orange County licensed to rescue and respond to sea lions, seals, sea turtles, dolphins, and whales.

“Protecting our ocean is vital for our planet’s health and we need to preserve what we have for future generations. Glenn and the passionate team of ocean rescuers are doing that and much more as they’ve worked tirelessly to ensure the highest animal rescue and rehabilitation, effective STEM educational programs, and comprehensive research, which is why I am proud to name them as the nonprofit organization of 2025 in my district,” concluded Senator Strickland .

﻿ As a former co-chair of the Animal Protection Caucus, Senator Strickland worked to pass humane policies and to reduce animal suffering, including co-authoring the following noteworthy legislation, which were signed into law. Senate Bill 425 (to crackdown on animal fighting) and Senate Bill 917 ( to ban the sale of animals in parking lots and along roadsides and to increase fines and possible jail time for those convicted of felony animal neglect.).

Capitol:

District Office:

301 Main Street, Suite 212 Huntington Beach, CA 92648 (714) 374-4000

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

<d

Home

About Tony Biography Committees

Biography

Committees

Newsroom Releases / Opinions Newsletters Audio / Video Photos

Releases / Opinions

Newsletters

Audio / Video

Photos

Contact Me District Map My Offices Scheduling Requests

District Map

My Offices

Scheduling Requests

Senator Strickland recognizes Pacific Marine Mammal Center as Senate District 36th Non-profit of the Year

Breadcrumb