Today, Senator Shannon Grove (R-Bakersfield) was sworn-in to represent the 12 th Senate District which encompasses Fresno, Kern and Tulare Counties. She has previously represented several areas of the Central Valley while she was an Assemblywoman, State Senator and Senate Republican Leader. Senator Grove is a strong supporter of law enforcement, keeping our students in schools with ample support for safety, encouraging small businesses and supporting agriculture and energy production in the Central Valley.

Earlier today, Senator Grove introduced Senate Bill 14 which will strengthen public safety by including human trafficking in the lists of crimes that are defined as serious and violent under California law, making the crime a strike under the Three Strikes law.

During the 2021-2022 legislative session, Senator Grove championed legislation and advocated for survivors that have been severely affected by the soft-on-crime policies, which has allowed the early release of violent offenders back onto the streets. California survivors, advocates and community organizations that have been impacted by human trafficking firsthand strongly supported Senator Grove’s previous legislative proposal. Despite the widespread support for the bill, Sacramento Democrats killed the bill in the Senate Public Safety Committee.

“Human Trafficking is not a crime taking place on the other side of the world,” said Senator Grove. “It’s happening right here in our own backyard, to students in our school systems and to our neighbors next door. It’s time we take swift action to protect survivors by giving law enforcement the tools they need to prosecute human trafficking as the crime that it has always been—a serious and violent offense.”

California consistently ranks number one in the nation for the number of human trafficking cases reported to the National Human Trafficking Hotline. Law enforcement agencies and special task forces have been dedicated to stopping human trafficking across the state, yet the level of sophistication and organization of these trafficking rings will require stronger consequences for law enforcement to hold criminals accountable.

Senator Grove will continue to prioritize public safety measures that hold criminals accountable and protect the most vulnerable members of our communities.

Senator Shannon Grove being sworn in on the Senate floor as the representative of the 12 th Senate District.

Senator Shannon Grove introducing her first bill of the 2022-2023 legislative session, Senate Bill 14.

Capitol Office

1021 O Street, Room 7150 Sacramento, CA 95814 Phone: (916) 651-4012 Fax: (916) 651-4916

Bakersfield Office

5701 Truxtun Ave., Suite 150 Bakersfield, CA 93309 Phone: (661) 323-0443 Fax: (661) 323-0446

Fresno Office

567 W. Shaw Ave., Suite A-3 Fresno, CA 93704 Phone:  559-243-8580

facebook Facebook

twitter Twitter

instagram Instagram

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

Home

About Shannon Biography Committees 12th Senate District Map

Biography

Committees

12th Senate District Map

Legislation My Legislation Bill Search Submit a Legislative Proposal

My Legislation

Bill Search

Submit a Legislative Proposal

Newsroom Releases / Editorials Photos

Releases / Editorials

Photos

Resources California Senate Fellows Program Coronavirus Information Education Register to Vote Unclaimed Property Veteran Resources

California Senate Fellows Program

Coronavirus Information

Education

Register to Vote

Unclaimed Property

Veteran Resources

Contact me My Offices E-mail the Senator Subscribe

My Offices

E-mail the Senator

Subscribe

Senator Shannon Grove Continues Fight against Human Trafficking After Being Sworn in as Senator of the 12th District

More News

View All

Breadcrumb

Aug 29
Senator Shannon Grove Celebrates Advancement of Key Bills for Special Education and Rural Healthcare, Expresses Disappointment Over Scrapping of Leno’s Law
Aug 27
VIDEO: Celebrity advocate Paris Hilton calls for passage of child protection measure ahead of key vote
Aug 25
Senator Shannon Grove and Assemblyman David Tangipa  Honor Retired NFL Quarterback, Derek Carr
Aug 21
Senator Shannon Grove opposes Democrats' attempt to override the will of California voters