Today, Senator Rosilicie Ochoa Bogh ( R-Yucaipa ) announced that she has formally sent a letter to Senate President Pro Tempore Mike McGuire, urging the introduction of her Senate Bill during the Second Extraordinary Session. The bill aims to immediately halt the state’s gas tax and provide significant economic relief to California consumers at the pump.

Earlier this week, Democrat leadership blocked the bill from being introduced without consideration.

“Californians are feeling the squeeze at the gas pump, and they deserve answers. I sent this letter because I’m fighting for transparency, accountability, and real relief for every family struggling with rising fuel costs,” said Senator Ochoa Bogh . “It’s time we have an open and honest discussion about how California’s taxes and fees contribute to these skyrocketing prices.”

Since taking office, Senator Ochoa Bogh has been a strong advocate for suspending the gas tax to provide much-needed relief at the pump. As gas prices have continued to rise, the burden on hardworking Californians has only grown. She has been a constant fighter in this effort, pushing to put the gas tax on hold to ensure our residents can catch a break from the soaring costs of fuel.

Senator Ochoa Bogh emphasized the need for the Legislature to focus on real solutions for Californians who are grappling with rising costs, not just at the pump, but across essential sectors such as groceries, utilities, and other basic needs. The Governor’s Proclamation calling for a special session to examine price spikes for gasoline provides an opportunity to assess how state-imposed taxes and fees contribute to these burdens.

Senator Ochoa Bogh is pushing for an open discussion on the role that state policies play in exacerbating high gas prices and remains ready to take immediate action.

The same bill has been introduced in this Extraordinary Session in the Assembly but was not given a hearing.

Read and download letter here .

Capitol Office

1021 O Street, Room 7220 Sacramento, CA 95814 Phone: (916) 651-4019 Fax: (916) 651-4919

Redlands Office

1758 Orange Tree Lane, Suite B Redlands, CA 92374 Phone: (909) 335-0271 Fax: (909) 335-0282

facebook Facebook

twitter Twitter

instagram Instagram

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

Home

About Rosilicie My Legislation Current Legislation Legislative Accomplishments 2024 Legislative Accomplishments 2023 Legislative Accomplishments 2022-21 Bill Search Committees Biography

My Legislation Current Legislation Legislative Accomplishments 2024 Legislative Accomplishments 2023 Legislative Accomplishments 2022-21 Bill Search

Current Legislation

Legislative Accomplishments 2024

Legislative Accomplishments 2023

Legislative Accomplishments 2022-21

Bill Search

Committees

Biography

District District Map Virtual Insurance Town Hall Virtual PSPS Town Hall Wildfire Resources

District Map

Virtual Insurance Town Hall

Virtual PSPS Town Hall

Wildfire Resources

Newsroom Releases/Editorials

Releases/Editorials

Contact Me Constituent Services E-mail the Senator Look Ahead Mobile Office Hours My Offices State Agencies Subscribe

Constituent Services

E-mail the Senator

Look Ahead

Mobile Office Hours

My Offices

State Agencies

Subscribe

Senator Ochoa Bogh continues to fight for suspending gas tax

Breadcrumb