During his town hall meeting last night, Senator Brian W. Jones (R-Santee) named Julie Reeder as “Woman of the Year” for Senate District 38, comprising East and North San Diego County.

“Julie is a very dynamic and inspirational business owner and community leader,” stated Senator Brian W. Jones.  “Her award-winning work as a publisher and editor of several publications in our region is well respected and greatly appreciated.  Through her business and charitable efforts, Julie has assisted many families and individuals in our community.”

Julie Reeder is the President and Publisher of Reeder Media and Village News, Inc., which publishes the Valley News, the Fallbrook/Bonsall Village News, the Anza Valley Outlook newspapers, as well as annual magazines including the Greater Fallbrook Area Sourcebook, The Greater Southwest Valley Sourcebook, and The Greater Southwest Riverside County Cancer Resource Guide. Combined these garner over 300,000 readers per month.

During past San Diego wildfires, Julie led her staff to keep over 75,000 people—who were all forced to evacuate—abreast of the news on a minute-by-minute basis. Journalists were actually on the scene day and night with fire personnel reporting which neighborhoods were burning and which were being saved.

Julie Reeder is passionate about serving her community and was recognized by ARC of San Diego with a “Dove Award” for her support of community and nonprofit organizations. As a business leader she has been recognized by the Temecula, Menifee, Wildomar, Fallbrook and Bonsall Chambers of Commerce.

Julie states that she is blessed with a great family and wonderful competent staff who are committed to their mission statement of being “the hub of communication that informs, connects and strengthens the communities they serve with journalistic integrity.”

She and her husband Charles (Chuck) have been married for 39 years, are proud parents of four children, a daughter-in-law, a son-in-law, and are proud grandparents of three grandchildren. The have lived in the Fallbrook/Bonsall community since 1988 and plan to “stay forever!”

Since 1987 the Legislative Women’s Caucus has encouraged all legislators to honor a special woman in their district each year in honor of “Women’s History Month,” which occurs in March this year.

Capitol Office

1021 O Street, Room 7640 Sacramento, CA 95814 Phone: (916) 651-4040 Fax: (916) 651-4940

Scripps Ranch Office

10650 Treena Street #110 San Diego, CA 92131 Phone: (858) 547-3818

Escondido Office

720 N. Broadway, Suite 110 Escondido, CA 92025 Phone: (760) 796-4655

facebook Facebook

twitter Twitter

instagram Instagram

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

Home

About Brian Biography

Biography

Legislation My Legislation Committees Bill Search

My Legislation

Committees

Bill Search

Newsroom Releases/Editorials In The News Audio/Video Are You Kidding Me? Photos Media Kit

Releases/Editorials

In The News

Audio/Video

Are You Kidding Me?

Photos

Media Kit

Contact Me Certificate Request District Internship Program District Map E-mail the Senator Legislative Proposal My Offices Subscribe to the Mailing List

Certificate Request

District Internship Program

District Map

E-mail the Senator

Legislative Proposal

My Offices

Subscribe to the Mailing List

Senator Jones selects Julie Reeder as “Woman of the Year” for Senate District 38

More News

ICYMI

View All

Breadcrumb

Aug 6
California Republicans’ Growing Impact on Social Media
Jul 16
Leader Jones Stands on Steps of the Capitol Opposing the Anti-Charter School Bill
Jul 16
AB 84 Charter Schools Press Conference
Jul 15
Leader Jones Demands Accountability on Dangerous Sexually Violent Predator Program

Jun 17
2025
$8-a-gallon gas? Senate Minority Leader Brian W. Jones requests audit of gas price hikes
Jun 9
2025
Nixed bill could have prevented LA unrest, California minority leader says
Jun 8
2025
California lawmaker warns Menendez brothers' case is driving return of bill to release thousands of killers
Jun 3
2025
Ramona nonprofit, resident recognized with Senate District 40 awards