Senator Shannon Grove (R-Bakersfield) responds to Governor Newsom’s 2023-24 state budget proposal:

"Governor Newsom’s budget is a band aid on the damage that his over-taxing, over-regulating, and over-spending has done to California’s families and businesses. His budget continues to push the same policies that have resulted in the highest cost of living, the highest poverty, historically high crime rates and a worsening homeless crisis. Where is the accountability? He has spent $30 billion of our tax dollars on housing affordability proposals, but California still has the most unaffordable housing market in the country. Tens of billions have been spent on homelessness but California has the nation’s highest number of homeless.

"Prioritizing the state’s fentanyl crisis is a step in the right direction, however, with no meaningful chance of prison time there is no deterrent to the opioid dealers who are flooding our schools and streets with this dangerous drug. I am disappointed the Governor will penalize businesses by backing out of last year’s deal to reduce the Federal Unemployment Insurance Trust Fund especially considering tens of billions of dollars have been wasted through fraud at the EDD. Outcomes matter, and taxpayers deserve accountability for how their money is being spent.

"It is unacceptable that despite the record amounts of rain the state has received over the last few weeks, there is no additional money for water storage which means the budget is still not serious about addressing California’s food and water security. The Governor needs to understand we can’t import 100% of the food the Central Valley grows. I am also strongly opposed to the Governor’s continued war on the state’s oil and gas industry, which provides good jobs for thousands of families and energy security for all Californians. The Governor and the majority party must prioritize the immediate needs of Californians, instead of focusing on their unaffordable Green Fantasy."

Capitol Office

1021 O Street, Room 7150 Sacramento, CA 95814 Phone: (916) 651-4012 Fax: (916) 651-4916

Bakersfield Office

5701 Truxtun Ave., Suite 150 Bakersfield, CA 93309 Phone: (661) 323-0443 Fax: (661) 323-0446

Fresno Office

567 W. Shaw Ave., Suite A-3 Fresno, CA 93704 Phone:  559-243-8580

facebook Facebook

twitter Twitter

instagram Instagram

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

Home

About Shannon Biography Committees 12th Senate District Map

Biography

Committees

12th Senate District Map

Legislation My Legislation Bill Search Submit a Legislative Proposal

My Legislation

Bill Search

Submit a Legislative Proposal

Newsroom Releases / Editorials Photos

Releases / Editorials

Photos

Resources California Senate Fellows Program Coronavirus Information Education Register to Vote Unclaimed Property Veteran Resources

California Senate Fellows Program

Coronavirus Information

Education

Register to Vote

Unclaimed Property

Veteran Resources

Contact me My Offices E-mail the Senator Subscribe

My Offices

E-mail the Senator

Subscribe

Senator Grove Responds to Newsom’s State Budget Proposal

More News

View All

Breadcrumb

Aug 29
Senator Shannon Grove Celebrates Advancement of Key Bills for Special Education and Rural Healthcare, Expresses Disappointment Over Scrapping of Leno’s Law
Aug 27
VIDEO: Celebrity advocate Paris Hilton calls for passage of child protection measure ahead of key vote
Aug 25
Senator Shannon Grove and Assemblyman David Tangipa  Honor Retired NFL Quarterback, Derek Carr
Aug 21
Senator Shannon Grove opposes Democrats' attempt to override the will of California voters