Scripps Ranch, CA – Earlier this week, California Senate Minority Leader Brian W. Jones (R-San Diego) hosted a successful grand opening and legislative open house of his new Scripps Ranch office. The event on October 4, 2023, had over 1,300 attendees, including several elected officials and 40 exhibits from community groups and non-profits throughout the district. Click here for photos from the event.

“We are thrilled that the grand opening of my Scripps Ranch office was an enormous success with over 1,300 attendees joining us to learn more about my office and the good work of community groups around the district,” said Leader Jones. “This incredible turnout reflects the strong sense of community and shared purpose that defines our district. I am deeply grateful for the support of our constituents and look forward to continuing our work together.”

During the event, Leader Jones recognized the “Senate District 40 Non-Profit of the Year,” EDUCATE! University City Foundation for Public Schools , which provided over $2 million in supplemental funds for all five University City public schools to support core programming and education of nearly 5,000 students. Click here for EDUCATE!’s Senate Resolution presentation photo.

Leader Jones also recognized the “Senate District 40 Woman of the Year,” Bari Landry Vaz. Vaz is a leader in several Mira Mesa community groups, including serving as the President of the Mira Mesa Town Council and President of the Mira Mesa Community Foundation. Click here for Vaz’s Senate Resolution presentation photo.

The event featured exhibits from several district and regional non-profits and community groups. Click here for a video walkthrough of all the exhibits.

The following community groups had booth exhibits at the event: San Diego Police Officers Association; San Diego County District Attorney’s Office; San Diego Unified School District; San Diego State University; University of California San Diego; Fallbrook Food Pantry; G.I. Film Festival – San Diego; Home of Guiding Hands; Friends of the NRA; Project Next; Scripps Ranch Kiwanis; Southern Caregiver Resource Center; Throughout All Ages Ministry; Elisa Peskin Animal Therapy; Lions, Tigers, and Bears; PWI; MANA de San Diego, North County; East County Transitional Living Center; CAPS Pregnancy Clinics; Pregnancy Care Clinic; Urban Corps of San Diego; Poway Unified School District Community Watch; San Diego Mountain Bikers Association; San Diego Workforce Partnership; Institute for Public Strategies; Election Integrity Project; Sewa International USA; Ekal Vidyalaya Foundation of USA; Hindu Swayamsevak Sangh, USA; Salt and Light.

The following local restaurants, businesses, and individuals had booths with donated food for the event: Popeyes; Eastbound Bar & Grill in Lakeside; Hunters of Hendrix Coffee in San Diego; Hilliker’s Ranch Fresh Eggs in Lakeside; SDUSD – Culinary, Health, Engineering, and BioMed Program; Phil’s BBQ; Red White and Bad Ass Brew; Deanna’s Gluten Free; McDonald’s in Santee, Vista, San Marcos, San Diego Midway, Del Mar Heights; Mary’s Donuts in Lakeside; Jackie’s Jams; Crumbl Cookies in Poway; Reyes Coca-Cola Bottling; EDCO Waste & Recycling Services; Republic Services; Takhrai Thai Restaurant in Mira Mesa; Co's Traffic Control, Inc.; Toyota of El Cajon; Old Town Chamber of Commerce; Old Town Mexican Café; Dr. Tamara Hoover’s Fudge.

Capitol Office

1021 O Street, Room 7640 Sacramento, CA 95814 Phone: (916) 651-4040 Fax: (916) 651-4940

Scripps Ranch Office

10650 Treena Street #110 San Diego, CA 92131 Phone: (858) 547-3818

Escondido Office

720 N. Broadway, Suite 110 Escondido, CA 92025 Phone: (760) 796-4655

facebook Facebook

twitter Twitter

instagram Instagram

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

Senator Jones Open House

Senator Jones Open House2

Home

About Brian Biography

Biography

Legislation My Legislation Committees Bill Search

My Legislation

Committees

Bill Search

Newsroom Releases/Editorials In The News Audio/Video Are You Kidding Me? Photos Media Kit

Releases/Editorials

In The News

Audio/Video

Are You Kidding Me?

Photos

Media Kit

Contact Me Certificate Request District Internship Program District Map E-mail the Senator Legislative Proposal My Offices Subscribe to the Mailing List

Certificate Request

District Internship Program

District Map

E-mail the Senator

Legislative Proposal

My Offices

Subscribe to the Mailing List

Senator Brian Jones Hosts Grand Opening of New District Office

More News

ICYMI

View All

Breadcrumb

Aug 6
California Republicans’ Growing Impact on Social Media
Jul 16
Leader Jones Stands on Steps of the Capitol Opposing the Anti-Charter School Bill
Jul 16
AB 84 Charter Schools Press Conference
Jul 15
Leader Jones Demands Accountability on Dangerous Sexually Violent Predator Program

Jun 17
2025
$8-a-gallon gas? Senate Minority Leader Brian W. Jones requests audit of gas price hikes
Jun 9
2025
Nixed bill could have prevented LA unrest, California minority leader says
Jun 8
2025
California lawmaker warns Menendez brothers' case is driving return of bill to release thousands of killers
Jun 3
2025
Ramona nonprofit, resident recognized with Senate District 40 awards