Senator Shannon Grove (R-Bakersfield) is co-sponsoring a bipartisan budget proposal with Senator Mike McGuire (D-Healdsburg) to increase the California Department of Forestry and Fire Protection’s (CAL FIRE) staff in order to meet the national standard of three firefighters per engine.

Over the last few years, wildfires have devastated and ravaged many communities across California. Due to major staff shortages, firefighters are working long overtime hours for multiple weeks at a time, without a single day off in between shifts. California’s worsening fire conditions are requiring more resources and staff to ensure we keep our communities and first responders safe.

“This proposal will be a critical down payment in supporting our firefighters who meet the increasing demands that wildfires have on our state,'' said Senator Grove. “Our firefighters continue to battle wildfires of historic proportions and work tirelessly to protect our communities.”

California’s wildfire season is starting earlier and ending later each year. The length of the fire season has increased substantially, requiring firefighters to work extremely long stretches at a time. California wildfires are burning in historical proportions and affecting not only rural areas but urban cities as well. Therefore, we must take proactive measures in order to protect our communities.

Capitol Office

1021 O Street, Room 7150 Sacramento, CA 95814 Phone: (916) 651-4012 Fax: (916) 651-4916

Bakersfield Office

5701 Truxtun Ave., Suite 150 Bakersfield, CA 93309 Phone: (661) 323-0443 Fax: (661) 323-0446

Fresno Office

567 W. Shaw Ave., Suite A-3 Fresno, CA 93704 Phone:  559-243-8580

facebook Facebook

twitter Twitter

instagram Instagram

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

Home

About Shannon Biography Committees 12th Senate District Map

Biography

Committees

12th Senate District Map

Legislation My Legislation Bill Search Submit a Legislative Proposal

My Legislation

Bill Search

Submit a Legislative Proposal

Newsroom Releases / Editorials Photos

Releases / Editorials

Photos

Resources California Senate Fellows Program Coronavirus Information Education Register to Vote Unclaimed Property Veteran Resources

California Senate Fellows Program

Coronavirus Information

Education

Register to Vote

Unclaimed Property

Veteran Resources

Contact me My Offices E-mail the Senator Subscribe

My Offices

E-mail the Senator

Subscribe

Senator Grove Co-Sponsors Proposal to Increase CAL FIRE’s Staffing to Prepare for the Wildfire Season

More News

View All

Breadcrumb

Aug 29
Senator Shannon Grove Celebrates Advancement of Key Bills for Special Education and Rural Healthcare, Expresses Disappointment Over Scrapping of Leno’s Law
Aug 27
VIDEO: Celebrity advocate Paris Hilton calls for passage of child protection measure ahead of key vote
Aug 25
Senator Shannon Grove and Assemblyman David Tangipa  Honor Retired NFL Quarterback, Derek Carr
Aug 21
Senator Shannon Grove opposes Democrats' attempt to override the will of California voters