Today, Senator Shannon Grove is revved up to announce that Senate Bill 712 , also known as Leno’s Law, has cleared a major legislative hurdle, the Senate Appropriations Committee with bipartisan support. This legislation, sponsored by legendary comedian and automotive collector Jay Leno, removes outdated smog check requirements for classic vehicles that are 35 model years or older, ensuring these icons of California’s rich automotive history.

“I’m excited to see SB 712 advance through the Senate Appropriations Committee with strong bipartisan backing,” said Senator Shannon Grove. “These classic cars aren’t just vehicles, they embody generations of craftsmanship, culture, and community pride. This bill protects small businesses, empowers car enthusiasts, and preserves a vital piece of California’s heritage.”

“The Senate Appropriations Committee has added new language to the bill, which I look forward to reviewing. While I have concerns about the amendments, I remain optimistic that we can work to improve the language as the bill continues through the legislative process,” concluded Senator Shannon Grove.

Sponsored by Jay Leno, a lifelong advocate for automotive culture, SB 712 recognizes that collector vehicles, only driven for special occasions or car shows, have minimal environmental impact and deserve updated regulations.

“California helped invent car culture, from lowriders in East L.A. to muscle cars in the Central Valley. These cars tell our story,” said Jay Leno. “SB 712 is about keeping that story alive. These vehicles are only driven occasionally, not daily, and it makes sense to treat them differently. I’m proud to work with Senator Grove and thank the committee for supporting our automotive legacy.”

The Senate Appropriations Committee’s approval of SB 712 acknowledges its role in supporting California’s $40.44 billion specialty automotive aftermarket industry, which sustains over 149,000 jobs and contributes $6.16 billion in state and local taxes, according to the Specialty Equipment Market Association (SEMA). By removing unnecessary smog check requirements, this bill help ease financial and regulatory burdens on collectors and small businesses while preserving California’s automotive heritage.

“This bill ensures California remains a home for car enthusiasts—whether you’re restoring a ‘76 Trans Am, cruising in a lowrider, or enjoying a local car show,” added Senator Grove. “We’re embracing the history, innovation, and pride of these collector cars.”

﻿ SB 712 will now move forward to the Senate for a full floor vote. For more information, follow @ShannonGroveCA.

Capitol Office

1021 O Street, Room 7150 Sacramento, CA 95814 Phone: (916) 651-4012 Fax: (916) 651-4916

Bakersfield Office

5701 Truxtun Ave., Suite 150 Bakersfield, CA 93309 Phone: (661) 323-0443 Fax: (661) 323-0446

Fresno Office

567 W. Shaw Ave., Suite A-3 Fresno, CA 93704 Phone:  559-243-8580

facebook Facebook

twitter Twitter

instagram Instagram

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

Home

About Shannon Biography Committees 12th Senate District Map

Biography

Committees

12th Senate District Map

Legislation My Legislation Bill Search Submit a Legislative Proposal

My Legislation

Bill Search

Submit a Legislative Proposal

Newsroom Releases / Editorials Photos

Releases / Editorials

Photos

Resources California Senate Fellows Program Coronavirus Information Education Register to Vote Unclaimed Property Veteran Resources

California Senate Fellows Program

Coronavirus Information

Education

Register to Vote

Unclaimed Property

Veteran Resources

Contact me My Offices E-mail the Senator Subscribe

My Offices

E-mail the Senator

Subscribe

Senator Shannon Grove’s smog check exemption bill, Leno’s Law, passes major legislative checkpoint

More News

View All

Breadcrumb

Aug 29
Senator Shannon Grove Celebrates Advancement of Key Bills for Special Education and Rural Healthcare, Expresses Disappointment Over Scrapping of Leno’s Law
Aug 27
VIDEO: Celebrity advocate Paris Hilton calls for passage of child protection measure ahead of key vote
Aug 25
Senator Shannon Grove and Assemblyman David Tangipa  Honor Retired NFL Quarterback, Derek Carr
Aug 21
Senator Shannon Grove opposes Democrats' attempt to override the will of California voters