Today, Senator Suzette Valladares announced that Sandra Avery has been named the Senate District 23 Woman of the Year for her unwavering commitment to local causes, her significant contributions to the Antelope Valley, and her inspiring leadership both in business and charitable causes. Avery joined Sen Valladares today on the State Senate floor to receive her honor.

“Sandra has dedicated much of her life to serving her community through her successful businesses and her generous philanthropy work,” said Senator Valladares. “Sandra is a trailblazing entrepreneur who has distinguished herself in every endeavor she undertakes.  She has invested countless hours in supporting local philanthropies that support military veterans, a women’s shelter and many other local causes.  Our community would not be the same without all of her tremendous efforts.”

Born and raised in Southern California, Sandra has spent her life balancing professional achievement with a passion for family and service.  Sandra and her husband Bart live in Antelope Valley and have two grown sons, Brian and Kevin. Sandra began her career as a loan officer and quickly climbed the ranks to office manager. She then pursued a career in real estate and built a reputation as a knowledgeable and client-focused professional. Sandra’s deep commitment to the community led her to become involved with local organizations, where she contributed her expertise and resources to many charitable causes.

In 2011, when Sandra’s son Brian suggested turning his passion for home brewing into a business, Sandra and Bart supported his vision by co-founding Bravery Brewing Company in Lancaster, California. The brewery, which opened in 2012, quickly became a local hub for craft beer enthusiasts.

Sandra has won numerous accolades, establishing herself as a leader who always puts people first, especially when it comes to supporting charitable organizations and local causes. She has made a significant impact on the community through her work with veteran-supporting non-profits, including WAVES, which supports disabled veterans. Sandra launched “Pizza with a Purpose,” a program run out of Bravery Brewing to partner with and raise funds for dozens of local charities.

“I’m deeply humbled by this honor,” Avery said. “Our community is an extremely special place, filled with wonderful people who contribute time and talents to bettering life for everyone here. I’ve always believed that when we lift each other up, we all rise together, and that’s the heart of everything I do.”

Since 1987, the Legislative Women’s Caucus has encouraged all legislators to recognize a special woman in their district each year in honor of “Women’s History Month,” which occurs in March. As part of Women’s History Month, the senators recognize each Senate district’s honoree during a ceremony on the Senate floor during an official session.

Capitol

Valencia Office

25060 West Ave Stanford, Suite 130 Valencia, CA 91355 Phone: (661) 257-1204

Lancaster Office

42505 10th St West Suite 109 Lancaster, CA 93534 Phone: (661) 729-6232

Adelanto Office

11600 Air Expressway Adelanto, CA 92301 Phone: (760) 246-2911

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

<d

Home

About Suzette Biography Committees District Map

Biography

Committees

District Map

Legislation My Legislation Bill Search

My Legislation

Bill Search

Newsroom Releases / Opinions Media Kit

Releases / Opinions

Media Kit

Contact Me Email the Senator My Offices

Email the Senator

My Offices

Senator Suzette Valladares Names Sandra Avery Senate District 23’s Woman of the Year

Breadcrumb