Senator Rosilicie Ochoa Bogh ( R-Yucaipa ) has chosen California Family Life Center as the 2024 Nonprofit of the Year for the 23rd Senate District.

“California Family Life Center transforms the lives of foster children facing hardship and abuse. By nurturing a community of foster kids and parents, they instill values and a sense of service,” said Senator Ochoa Bogh . “They have received the highest CARF International accreditation for Foster Family and Kinship Care, Group Home Care, and Support programs, which demonstrates their commitment to providing exceptional, personalized care. This recognition emphasizes their unwavering dedication and quality, offering hope and resilience to the foster care community. I am honored to name them the 2024 Nonprofit of the Year for the 23rd Senate District.”

California Family Life Center is a foster care service for children facing hardship and abuse. Their mission is to offer safety, comfort, and healing to children experiencing abuse and abandonment. They aim to teach love and trust, instill self-esteem, values, and hope for the future, and help children who feel hopeless and desperate to become caring and contributing members of the community.

“We are incredibly honored and grateful to Senator Rosilicie Ochoa Bogh for acknowledging the California Family Life Center as the 2024 Nonprofit of the Year,” said Executive Director Mary Jo Ramirez . “This amazing recognition highlights our commitment to providing foster children with a safe and nurturing environment and community youth opportunities for education and employment. We are dedicated to continuing our mission of transforming lives and bringing hope to our community. A heartfelt thank you to Senator Ochoa Bogh for this incredible honor and for supporting our cause.”

CARF International has awarded the California Family Life Center the highest level of accreditation for its Foster Family and Kinship Care, Group Home Care, and Support and Facilitation programs.

CARF accreditation is a public seal of trust and commitment to quality based on internationally accepted standards. This accreditation demonstrates the California Family Life Center's dedication to exceptional, personalized care. An organization that receives the highest level of

CARF accreditation has undergone a detailed peer review process and has demonstrated to a team of surveyors, during an on-site visit, its commitment to providing programs and services of the highest quality.

This recognition was part of a larger celebration of CalNonprofits’ " California Nonprofits Day ”. The recognition as a Nonprofit of the Year brings deserved attention to outstanding nonprofits while illustrating the remarkable diversity and vibrancy of California's nonprofit community. For more information about California Nonprofits Day, click here .

Capitol Office

1021 O Street, Room 7220 Sacramento, CA 95814 Phone: (916) 651-4019 Fax: (916) 651-4919

Redlands Office

1758 Orange Tree Lane, Suite B Redlands, CA 92374 Phone: (909) 335-0271 Fax: (909) 335-0282

facebook Facebook

twitter Twitter

instagram Instagram

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

Home

About Rosilicie My Legislation Current Legislation Legislative Accomplishments 2024 Legislative Accomplishments 2023 Legislative Accomplishments 2022-21 Bill Search Committees Biography

My Legislation Current Legislation Legislative Accomplishments 2024 Legislative Accomplishments 2023 Legislative Accomplishments 2022-21 Bill Search

Current Legislation

Legislative Accomplishments 2024

Legislative Accomplishments 2023

Legislative Accomplishments 2022-21

Bill Search

Committees

Biography

District District Map Virtual Insurance Town Hall Virtual PSPS Town Hall Wildfire Resources

District Map

Virtual Insurance Town Hall

Virtual PSPS Town Hall

Wildfire Resources

Newsroom Releases/Editorials

Releases/Editorials

Contact Me Constituent Services E-mail the Senator Look Ahead Mobile Office Hours My Offices State Agencies Subscribe

Constituent Services

E-mail the Senator

Look Ahead

Mobile Office Hours

My Offices

State Agencies

Subscribe

Senator Rosilicie Ochoa Bogh Honors  California Family Life Center as Nonprofit of the Year

Breadcrumb