Senator Shannon Grove (R-Bakersfield) delivered a letter to Governor Newsom this week urging him to approve permits for oil drilling so that California can expand its domestic oil production. With California gas prices soaring above $5.00 and no end in sight, this action would provide relief for motorists at the pumps. Click here to download the letter.

Dear Governor Newsom,

This morning President Joe Biden announced that the United States will stop importing Russian oil and gas in response to the Russian invasion of Ukraine. I applaud this action which will have the strong support of Americans outraged by continued Russian atrocities. You too have quickly responded to Russia’s invasion by directing state agencies and departments to ensure their contractors are complying with economic sanctions imposed by the federal government. This action followed your call for state pension funds to halt the flow of money from the state to Russia and to ban the purchase of Russian debt. You are to be commended for this strong action.

However, the state currently imports around 50,000 barrels of oil a day from Russia. That source will need to be made up somewhere. The state has two options. One option is to increase the amount of oil it imports from other foreign countries. California currently gets about 60% of its oil from Ecuador, Saudi Arabia, and Iraq. Ecuador is actively engaged in clear cutting the Amazon rainforest to accommodate California’s demand for oil, while Saudi Arabia and Iraq are responsible for widespread human rights violations.

Governor, California has another option that will create jobs and help secure our energy future. You can, today, expedite the more than 1,000 permits for expanded drilling and new projects awaiting approval by your Administration. Those projects would add thousands of new oil wells, create good paying jobs for Californians, and approving them would send a message that California’s energy security will not be a victim to foreign regimes that are incompatible with our freedoms.

The answer to this question is a simple one. It makes no sense for California to increase our oil imports from these disagreeable countries when the solution is right here at home. I implore you to support our in-state producers who can quickly ramp up local production if permits would be processed in a timely manner. I ask that you take a bold stand on this issue, send a clear message to Putin and other corrupt foreign regimes, and support California’s energy security.

Capitol Office

1021 O Street, Room 7150 Sacramento, CA 95814 Phone: (916) 651-4012 Fax: (916) 651-4916

Bakersfield Office

5701 Truxtun Ave., Suite 150 Bakersfield, CA 93309 Phone: (661) 323-0443 Fax: (661) 323-0446

Fresno Office

567 W. Shaw Ave., Suite A-3 Fresno, CA 93704 Phone:  559-243-8580

facebook Facebook

twitter Twitter

instagram Instagram

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

Home

About Shannon Biography Committees 12th Senate District Map

Biography

Committees

12th Senate District Map

Legislation My Legislation Bill Search Submit a Legislative Proposal

My Legislation

Bill Search

Submit a Legislative Proposal

Newsroom Releases / Editorials Photos

Releases / Editorials

Photos

Resources California Senate Fellows Program Coronavirus Information Education Register to Vote Unclaimed Property Veteran Resources

California Senate Fellows Program

Coronavirus Information

Education

Register to Vote

Unclaimed Property

Veteran Resources

Contact me My Offices E-mail the Senator Subscribe

My Offices

E-mail the Senator

Subscribe

Senator Grove Calls on Governor Newsom to Immediately Approve 1,000 Permits to Expand Domestic Oil Production

More News

View All

Breadcrumb

Aug 29
Senator Shannon Grove Celebrates Advancement of Key Bills for Special Education and Rural Healthcare, Expresses Disappointment Over Scrapping of Leno’s Law
Aug 27
VIDEO: Celebrity advocate Paris Hilton calls for passage of child protection measure ahead of key vote
Aug 25
Senator Shannon Grove and Assemblyman David Tangipa  Honor Retired NFL Quarterback, Derek Carr
Aug 21
Senator Shannon Grove opposes Democrats' attempt to override the will of California voters