Senator Ochoa Bogh (R-Yucaipa) has honored Lesa Sobek, Councilmember for the City of Menifee, as the 23rd Senate District’s Woman of the Year 2022.

“I have such admiration for Councilmember Lesa Sobek,” said Ochoa Bogh. “Her many years of volunteer work and her tireless efforts to tackle issues like homelessness, domestic violence awareness, and community safety make her a local trailblazer deserving of recognition. I am privileged to name her as Woman of the Year for the 23rd Senate District and I look forward to her continued success in improving the lives of all residents of the city of Menifee.”

Councilmember Lesa Sobek and her husband Jim have lived in Menifee since 1989. Lesa has been a dedicated volunteer and was involved in various PTAs, school programs, churches, and booster clubs as well as worked in many capacities for Menifee Union School District. She was eventually hired by MUSD to conduct research for a literacy program that she later implemented at Chester W. Morrison Elementary School. As a result of her hard work and volunteer efforts, Lesa was appointed to the City of Menifee Planning Commission before being elected to City Council in 2015.

She was instrumental in forming the City’s first Homeless Task Force and Park Ranger program. In 2012, she worked with City officials and the City Veterans Committee to create the City of Menifee Military Banner Program to honor the many men and women who have served our country. She also founded the Menifee Better Together Program and the Menifee Interfaith and Community Service Council. She has worked to raise awareness of domestic violence and supports regional nonprofits who serve domestic violence victims. Lesa is dedicated to creating a community culture that promotes safety for families and helps businesses thrive.

“I am grateful and humbled for this recognition from Senator Ochoa Bogh, and I appreciate her desire to put families first as a representative of the people of California,” said Councilmember Sobek. “Family has always been one of my areas of focus and work as a civic and city leader. I believe that service beyond measure begins at home, and I can only reflect on my own teachings to my children that we all have been given talents and gifts, and we all can make a difference in our own backyard, one person, one neighborhood, one community at a time. Advocating for our children, our youth, and our families with the giving of time, heart and service even in the face of adversity -can really create a meaningful impact. Because when you do things for others, there is no greater gift. Please acknowledge my heartfelt gratitude for this precious award.”

Lesa is a mother of three grown children and a proud grandmother of twelve grandchildren.

Given annually by each California legislator in their districts, the Woman of the Year award celebrates California’s extraordinary women. The first recognition was held in 1987 to help commemorate Women’s History Month. The award has become an annual Capitol tradition to salute women who have done outstanding community service. Honorees are presented with a framed certificate from the Legislature recognizing their outstanding contributions.

Capitol Office

1021 O Street, Room 7220 Sacramento, CA 95814 Phone: (916) 651-4019 Fax: (916) 651-4919

Redlands Office

1758 Orange Tree Lane, Suite B Redlands, CA 92374 Phone: (909) 335-0271 Fax: (909) 335-0282

facebook Facebook

twitter Twitter

instagram Instagram

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

Home

About Rosilicie My Legislation Current Legislation Legislative Accomplishments 2024 Legislative Accomplishments 2023 Legislative Accomplishments 2022-21 Bill Search Committees Biography

My Legislation Current Legislation Legislative Accomplishments 2024 Legislative Accomplishments 2023 Legislative Accomplishments 2022-21 Bill Search

Current Legislation

Legislative Accomplishments 2024

Legislative Accomplishments 2023

Legislative Accomplishments 2022-21

Bill Search

Committees

Biography

District District Map Virtual Insurance Town Hall Virtual PSPS Town Hall Wildfire Resources

District Map

Virtual Insurance Town Hall

Virtual PSPS Town Hall

Wildfire Resources

Newsroom Releases/Editorials

Releases/Editorials

Contact Me Constituent Services E-mail the Senator Look Ahead Mobile Office Hours My Offices State Agencies Subscribe

Constituent Services

E-mail the Senator

Look Ahead

Mobile Office Hours

My Offices

State Agencies

Subscribe

Senator Rosilicie Ochoa Bogh Honors Lesa Sobek as 23rd Senate District Woman of the Year

Breadcrumb