Senate Minority Leader Brian W. Jones ( R-San Diego ) ), along with a group of community leaders, held a press conference today to announce Leader Jones’ Senate Bill 554 , the Safety Before Criminal Sanctuary Act. The measure will help ensure violent offenders are not shielded from federal immigration authorities. Click here for a video recording of the press conference, here for photos from the press conference, here for the bill’s factsheet, and here for the petition in support of the bill.

SB 554 provides limitations to Senate Bill 54 (2017), which declares California as a Sanctuary State. While maintaining existing limits on state and local engagement with Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE), this bill prohibits local jurisdictions from further restricting cooperation and mandates cooperation for specific violent crimes already exempted under SB 54.

“The Safety Before Criminal Sanctuary Act is a commonsense measure to tighten up California’s Sanctuary State policies in favor of public safety,” said Leader Jones. “Importantly, this bill ensures violent criminals are not shielded from federal immigration authorities, using every tool in the toolbox to keep our communities safe.”

SB 54 (De León, 2017) designated California as a sanctuary state, restricting the use of state and local resources for federal immigration enforcement. However, the law included exceptions allowing—though not requiring—local law enforcement to cooperate with ICE for individuals convicted of specified felonies, including serious or violent crimes, child abuse, unlawful weapon possession or use, DUIs, trafficking controlled substances, human trafficking, rape, kidnapping, torture, gang activity, and those on the Sex and Arson Registry.

SB 554 is in response to a recent San Diego County ordinance declaring itself a “Super Sanctuary County,” banning law enforcement from cooperating with ICE for any offense—even those exempted under SB 54—unless a federal warrant is issued.

“We are stopping ‘super sanctuary’ cities and counties,” said Jones.

SB 554 prevents local jurisdictions from further restricting cooperation with federal immigration enforcement beyond what SB 54 already prescribes. It also mandates that local law enforcement cooperate with ICE in cases where SB 54 simply allows it, ensuring violent offenders are not shielded from federal immigration authorities.

At the press conference, Leader Jones was joined by Senator Rosilicie Ochoa Bogh ( R-Yucaipa) , Riverside County Sheriff Chad Bianco, San Diego County Supervisor Joel Anderson, El Cajon Mayor Bills Wells, Vista Mayor John Franklin, San Marcos City Councilman Ed Musgrove, Santee School Board Member Tracie Thill, Lakeside School Board President Andrew Hayes, Sharie Finn (Mother of a Survivor, Child Welfare Advocate, Founder of The RAD Movement ), Amy Reichert (Founder of Restore San Diego), and additional San Diego public safety activists.

Additional supporters of the bill include: San Diego County Deputy Sheriffs’ Association, Congressman Darrell Issa, San Diego County Supervisor Jim Desmond, and Carlsbad Mayor Keith Blackburn.

SB 554 is awaiting assignment to a Senate policy committee for a hearing.

What they’re saying about SB 554

“The authors and advocates of California’s sanctuary laws claim they protect people. But that’s not true. For years, they have instead shielded many of the most dangerous criminals in the country, all of them here illegally, and the names of the innocent California victims are a roll call of shame on the Governor and the Legislature. Sen. Jones has advanced a solution, I urge its fair consideration, and I hope it ends this terrible legacy.” – Congressman Darrell Issa

“Instead of protecting immigrant communities, California’s sanctuary state law ensures their continued victimization at the hands of dangerous criminals here illegally. At a minimum, SB 54 must be reformed to allow ICE into our county jails so that we may stop the cycle of victimization and make our communities safer. I want to thank Senate Republican Leader Brian Jones for standing up for common sense and introducing this critical legislation. Let’s hold the bad guys accountable.” – Riverside County Sheriff Chad Bianco

“This legislation is not just about enforcing laws; it’s about protecting all of our communities. By ensuring that violent offenders are not shielded from federal authorities, we create a safer environment for everyone, including undocumented families who deserve protection from those who wish to harm them.” – Senator Rosilicie Ochoa Bogh

“I’m grateful for Senate Minority Leader Jones’ laser focus on keeping our kids and communities safe.” – San Diego County Supervisor Joel Anderson

“Public safety is the cornerstone of our community, and our law enforcement officers must have every tool available to keep us safe. The current sanctuary state law ties the hands of local law enforcement, preventing them from cooperating with federal authorities to address real threats. Senator Brian Jones proposal is a common-sense approach that restores balance—and I will be bringing a Board Letter forward at the County Board of Supervisors in support of this.” - Supervisor Jim Desmond

“It’s imperative that we prioritize safety and justice over political agendas. By doing so, we can protect not only our children but future generations as well. Let us ensure that no other parent has to endure the heartbreak and trauma that my family has faced. Thank you Senator Jones for your solidarity and for standing with us as we strive for a more secure and just society for everyone.” – Sharie Finn, Mother of a Survivor, Child Welfare Advocate, Founder of The RAD Movement

“I support Senator Jones’ legislation because it demands that local jurisdictions cooperate with federal authorities to deport criminal alien murderers, rapists and child molesters. It is incomprehensible that our county board of Supervisors voted to protect these other serious felons.” – Vista Mayor John Franklin

“The issue of jurisdiction regarding immigration was addressed years ago by U.S. District Judge Mariana Pfaelzer who decided ‘...only the federal government can regulate immigration.’

Since this landmark decision, the State of California has incorrectly assumed authority to enact laws regarding immigration. Until this issue is ultimately settled for all 50 states, we are required to follow California law. The recent meddling into this issue by the San Diego Board of Supervisors was virtue signaling at its worst and placed our residents at risk from serious criminal actors.

Senator Jones' bill brings us back in compliance with state law & clarifies that serious & violent criminals will not be protected by a poorly-considered decision by the San Diego County Board of Supervisors. Public Safety is the primary reason we as elected officials serve.” – Ed Musgrove, San Marcos City Councilman

“I am a longtime Police Sgt and current mayor of Carlsbad, California. Quality of life and public safety have been my lifelong goal, that’s why I support Senator Jones’ SB 554.” – Carlsbad Mayor Keith Blackburn

Capitol Office

1021 O Street, Room 7640 Sacramento, CA 95814 Phone: (916) 651-4040 Fax: (916) 651-4940

Scripps Ranch Office

10650 Treena Street #110 San Diego, CA 92131 Phone: (858) 547-3818

Escondido Office

720 N. Broadway, Suite 110 Escondido, CA 92025 Phone: (760) 796-4655

facebook Facebook

twitter Twitter

instagram Instagram

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

Home

About Brian Biography

Biography

Legislation My Legislation Committees Bill Search

My Legislation

Committees

Bill Search

Newsroom Releases/Editorials In The News Audio/Video Are You Kidding Me? Photos Media Kit

Releases/Editorials

In The News

Audio/Video

Are You Kidding Me?

Photos

Media Kit

Contact Me Certificate Request District Internship Program District Map E-mail the Senator Legislative Proposal My Offices Subscribe to the Mailing List

Certificate Request

District Internship Program

District Map

E-mail the Senator

Legislative Proposal

My Offices

Subscribe to the Mailing List

Senate Minority Leader Jones Leads Effort to Overhaul California’s Sanctuary State Law

More News

ICYMI

View All

Breadcrumb

Aug 6
California Republicans’ Growing Impact on Social Media
Jul 16
Leader Jones Stands on Steps of the Capitol Opposing the Anti-Charter School Bill
Jul 16
AB 84 Charter Schools Press Conference
Jul 15
Leader Jones Demands Accountability on Dangerous Sexually Violent Predator Program

Jun 17
2025
$8-a-gallon gas? Senate Minority Leader Brian W. Jones requests audit of gas price hikes
Jun 9
2025
Nixed bill could have prevented LA unrest, California minority leader says
Jun 8
2025
California lawmaker warns Menendez brothers' case is driving return of bill to release thousands of killers
Jun 3
2025
Ramona nonprofit, resident recognized with Senate District 40 awards