Senate Minority Leader Brian W. Jones ( R-San Diego ) announces the introduction of the Cost of Living Reduction Act, Senate Bill 1326 , which would repeal the unfair law authorizing an income-based charge on electrical bills. Click here for the bill’s fact sheet and here for the petition in support of the measure.

“The income-based utility charge is nothing but a socialist billing scheme concocted by Democrat politicians and special interests to exploit and rip off Californians,” said Leader Jones. “We already pay some of the highest utility bills in the nation and we cannot allow them to skyrocket even further. Customers should be charged based on usage, not income.”

“Senate Bill 1326, the Cost of Living Reduction Act, is a vital step toward safeguarding family budgets and ensuring the affordability of utility bills across California,” said Senator Rosilicie Ochoa Bogh ( R-Yucaipa ). “By advocating for a return to capped fixed charges, Senate Bill 1326 champions the principle that utility bills should be based on how much energy is used, not on a family's income. This approach not only makes energy costs more predictable and manageable for all families but also encourages responsible energy consumption.”

The Cost of Living Act repeals the problematic provisions of the Democrat Assembly Bill 205 (2022) , which enables the California Public Utilities Commission (CPUC) to approve new fixed charges for Investor Owned Utilities (IOUs) customers based on income. This bill was never heard, vetted, or voted on in any policy committee and was rammed through the Legislature in a budget trailer bill by the Democrat supermajority at the last minute.

“AB 205 represents everything wrong with the one-party Democrat rule: rushed and flawed legislation detrimental to hardworking Californians,” continued Leader Jones.

Despite the supermajority pushing the bill forward, many Democrats who initially supported AB 205 are reversing course and now calling to stop the income-based charge .

“I’m encouraged that some of my Democrat colleagues are waking up to the harm their support of AB 205 will inflict on our state’s families,” Leader Jones asserted. “We must work across the aisle to pass the Cost of Living Reduction Act and assure Californians their Legislature serves the people, not special interests seeking to siphon their hard-earned dollars.”

Given that AB 205 mandates the implementation of the income-based fixed charge by July 1, 2024, Jones’s SB 1326 has an urgency clause to take effect immediately upon being signed into law.

SB 1326 is coauthored by Senators Brian Dahle ( R-Bieber ), Shannon Grove ( R-Bakersfield ), Janet Nguyen ( R-Huntington Beach ), Roger W. Niello ( R-Fair Oaks ), Rosilicie Ochoa Bogh ( R-Yucaipa ), Kelly Seyarto ( R-Murrieta ), and Scott Wilk ( R-Santa Clarita ). The measure is currently in the Senate Rules Committee awaiting referral to policy committee. Californians can voice their support for the Cost of Living Reduction Act by signing the petition here .

Capitol Office

1021 O Street, Room 7640 Sacramento, CA 95814 Phone: (916) 651-4040 Fax: (916) 651-4940

Scripps Ranch Office

10650 Treena Street #110 San Diego, CA 92131 Phone: (858) 547-3818

Escondido Office

720 N. Broadway, Suite 110 Escondido, CA 92025 Phone: (760) 796-4655

facebook Facebook

twitter Twitter

instagram Instagram

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

Home

About Brian Biography

Biography

Legislation My Legislation Committees Bill Search

My Legislation

Committees

Bill Search

Newsroom Releases/Editorials In The News Audio/Video Are You Kidding Me? Photos Media Kit

Releases/Editorials

In The News

Audio/Video

Are You Kidding Me?

Photos

Media Kit

Contact Me Certificate Request District Internship Program District Map E-mail the Senator Legislative Proposal My Offices Subscribe to the Mailing List

Certificate Request

District Internship Program

District Map

E-mail the Senator

Legislative Proposal

My Offices

Subscribe to the Mailing List

Senate Minority Leader Jones introduces the Cost of Living Reduction Act

More News

ICYMI

View All

Breadcrumb

Aug 6
California Republicans’ Growing Impact on Social Media
Jul 16
Leader Jones Stands on Steps of the Capitol Opposing the Anti-Charter School Bill
Jul 16
AB 84 Charter Schools Press Conference
Jul 15
Leader Jones Demands Accountability on Dangerous Sexually Violent Predator Program

Jun 17
2025
$8-a-gallon gas? Senate Minority Leader Brian W. Jones requests audit of gas price hikes
Jun 9
2025
Nixed bill could have prevented LA unrest, California minority leader says
Jun 8
2025
California lawmaker warns Menendez brothers' case is driving return of bill to release thousands of killers
Jun 3
2025
Ramona nonprofit, resident recognized with Senate District 40 awards