SACRAMENTO – Today, Senate Republican Leader Shannon Grove ( R-Bakersfield ) issued the following statement in commemoration of the 155th anniversary of Juneteenth:

“Juneteenth marks the day when slaves in Texas learned they were free, two and a half years after President Lincoln signed the Emancipation Proclamation. This day is an important time to reflect on the evils of slavery in our history. It is also a celebration of a time when good prevailed   in our country. Republicans take pride in our party’s historical role in ending slavery and promoting civil rights, including admiration for President Abraham Lincoln, the founder of our party who freed slaves with the Emancipation Proclamation.

“As the Party of Lincoln, Republicans have always stood for the promise of a more united America. The Republican Party pioneered the right of women to vote and was consistent in its support throughout the long campaign for acceptance. Republican President Dwight D. Eisenhower forced the desegregation of schools in the South, and Republicans overwhelmingly supported the Voting Rights and the Civil Rights Act to ensure all Americans would be treated equally.

“Today our Party continues to fight for the equal treatment of Black parents, many of whom are denied the opportunity to choose which school may best serve their children, such as charter schools. As a country, we must uphold these values, listen with respect, provide no tolerance for racism, and demand we are all treated by the content of our character, not by the color of our skin.

“As we commemorate the 155th anniversary of Juneteenth, let us empower the Black Community by supporting school choice, greater investments to promote small businesses and jobs, and urge sensible legislation that strengthens all communities of color,” said Senate Republican Leader Shannon Grove.

Capitol Office

1021 O Street, Room 7150 Sacramento, CA 95814 Phone: (916) 651-4012 Fax: (916) 651-4916

Bakersfield Office

5701 Truxtun Ave., Suite 150 Bakersfield, CA 93309 Phone: (661) 323-0443 Fax: (661) 323-0446

Fresno Office

567 W. Shaw Ave., Suite A-3 Fresno, CA 93704 Phone:  559-243-8580

facebook Facebook

twitter Twitter

instagram Instagram

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

Home

About Shannon Biography Committees 12th Senate District Map

Biography

Committees

12th Senate District Map

Legislation My Legislation Bill Search Submit a Legislative Proposal

My Legislation

Bill Search

Submit a Legislative Proposal

Newsroom Releases / Editorials Photos

Releases / Editorials

Photos

Resources California Senate Fellows Program Coronavirus Information Education Register to Vote Unclaimed Property Veteran Resources

California Senate Fellows Program

Coronavirus Information

Education

Register to Vote

Unclaimed Property

Veteran Resources

Contact me My Offices E-mail the Senator Subscribe

My Offices

E-mail the Senator

Subscribe

Senate Republican Leader Grove Commemorates 155th Anniversary of Juneteenth

More News

View All

Breadcrumb

Aug 29
Senator Shannon Grove Celebrates Advancement of Key Bills for Special Education and Rural Healthcare, Expresses Disappointment Over Scrapping of Leno’s Law
Aug 27
VIDEO: Celebrity advocate Paris Hilton calls for passage of child protection measure ahead of key vote
Aug 25
Senator Shannon Grove and Assemblyman David Tangipa  Honor Retired NFL Quarterback, Derek Carr
Aug 21
Senator Shannon Grove opposes Democrats' attempt to override the will of California voters