Yesterday evening, Democrat members of the Senate Energy, Utilities, and Communications Committee rejected the Cost of Living Reduction Act, Senate Bill 1326 , proposed by Senate Minority Leader Brian W. Jones ( R-San Diego ). The measure had an urgency clause and had it passed and become law, it would have immediately repealed an unfair law mandating the California Public Utilities Commission (CPUC) impose an uncapped, fixed charge on electrical bills. Thousands of Californians signed the petition in support of the measure. Click here for the bill’s fact sheet.

“It’s shameful that all 14 Democrats on the Senate Energy Committee refused to even cast a vote Cost of Living Reduction Act,” said Leader Jones . “Thousands of Californians support this measure and their refusal to act is a stark betrayal of the very constituents they claim to represent. The current decision from the PUC may be an improvement over the big utilities’ plan, but the fixed charge still remains excessively high. I am extremely concerned that the PUC now has unchecked power to increase this charge any time it wants. The state needs to be working to lower living costs, not passing more burdens onto renters and households.”

After Senate Republicans raised the alarm for months, the CPUC felt the pressure and rejected the billing scheme proposed by California’s Investor-Owned Utilities (IOUs) that would have added an income-based charge of up to $128 per month . Instead, the CPUC recently approved a $24.15 per month charge coupled with a reduction in usage rates, with tiered charges for lower-income customers. Despite this, Leader Jones contends that the fixed charge remains excessive, especially considering its uncapped nature under current law, allowing the CPUC to increase arbitrarily at any time.

The Cost of Living Act sought to repeal the problematic provisions of the Democrat Assembly Bill 205 (2022) , which ordered the CPUC to approve this fixed charge for IOU customers. This bill was never heard, vetted, or voted on in any policy committee and was rammed through the Legislature in a budget trailer bill by the Democrat supermajority at the last minute.

“AB 205 represents everything wrong with the one-party Democrat rule: rushed and flawed legislation detrimental to hardworking Californians,” continued Leader Jones.

Despite the supermajority pushing the bill forward, 22 Democrats who initially supported AB 205 are reversing course and now calling to stop the new fixed charge .

Given that AB 205 mandates the authorization of the income-based fixed charge by July 1, 2024, Jones’s SB 1326 had an urgency clause to take effect immediately upon being signed into law.

SB 1326 is coauthored by the entire Senate Republican Caucus: Senators Brian Dahle ( R-Bieber ), Shannon Grove ( R-Bakersfield ), Janet Nguyen ( R-Huntington Beach ), Roger W. Niello ( R-Fair Oaks ), Rosilicie Ochoa Bogh ( R-Yucaipa ), Kelly Seyarto ( R-Murrieta ), and Scott Wilk ( R-Santa Clarita ).

The measure stalled in the Senate Energy, Utilities, and Communications Committee on a 4-0 party-line vote with all Senate Republicans on the Committee (Dahle, Grove, Seyarto, and Wilk) supporting the measure and the following Democrat Senators refusing to even cast a vote: Josh Newman ( D-Fullerton ), Steven Bradford ( D-Gardena ), Angelique Ashby ( D-Sacramento ), Josh Becker ( D-Menlo Park ), Anna Caballero ( D-Merced ), Bill Dodd ( D-Napa ), Maria Elana Durazo ( D-Los Angeles ), Susan Eggman ( D-Stockton ), Lena Gonalez ( D-Long Beach ), Monique Limón ( D-Santa Barbara ), Dave Min ( D-Irvine ), Susan Rubio ( D-Baldwin Park ), Nancy Skinner ( D-Berkley ), and Aisha Wahab ( D-Hayward ).

Capitol Office

1021 O Street, Room 7640 Sacramento, CA 95814 Phone: (916) 651-4040 Fax: (916) 651-4940

Scripps Ranch Office

10650 Treena Street #110 San Diego, CA 92131 Phone: (858) 547-3818

Escondido Office

720 N. Broadway, Suite 110 Escondido, CA 92025 Phone: (760) 796-4655

facebook Facebook

twitter Twitter

instagram Instagram

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

Home

About Brian Biography

Biography

Legislation My Legislation Committees Bill Search

My Legislation

Committees

Bill Search

Newsroom Releases/Editorials In The News Audio/Video Are You Kidding Me? Photos Media Kit

Releases/Editorials

In The News

Audio/Video

Are You Kidding Me?

Photos

Media Kit

Contact Me Certificate Request District Internship Program District Map E-mail the Senator Legislative Proposal My Offices Subscribe to the Mailing List

Certificate Request

District Internship Program

District Map

E-mail the Senator

Legislative Proposal

My Offices

Subscribe to the Mailing List

Senate Energy Committee Rejects Cost of Living Reduction Act

More News

ICYMI

View All

Breadcrumb

Aug 6
California Republicans’ Growing Impact on Social Media
Jul 16
Leader Jones Stands on Steps of the Capitol Opposing the Anti-Charter School Bill
Jul 16
AB 84 Charter Schools Press Conference
Jul 15
Leader Jones Demands Accountability on Dangerous Sexually Violent Predator Program

Jun 17
2025
$8-a-gallon gas? Senate Minority Leader Brian W. Jones requests audit of gas price hikes
Jun 9
2025
Nixed bill could have prevented LA unrest, California minority leader says
Jun 8
2025
California lawmaker warns Menendez brothers' case is driving return of bill to release thousands of killers
Jun 3
2025
Ramona nonprofit, resident recognized with Senate District 40 awards