Senator Shannon Grove ( R-Bakersfield ) is pleased to announce her bill, Senate Bill 1172 , was signed into law by Governor Newsom. SB 1172 will extend the tax donation checkoffs for the California Breast Cancer Research Fund (CBCRF) and the California Cancer Research Fund (CCRF) until January 1, 2032. These funds provide critical resources to advance the fight against breast cancer and other forms of cancer.

"It has been an honor to author this impactful legislation and work alongside the American Cancer Society Action Network and the University of California Office of the President in our shared commitment to advancing cancer research,” said Senator Shannon Grove ( R-Bakersfield ).

By extending the tax donation checkoffs for the California Breast Cancer Research Fund and the California Cancer Research Fund, we are providing vital resources to fight against cancer and make an impact in the lives of many Californians. With the signing of SB 1172 into law, we are sending a strong message that our state is committed to fighting for a world without cancer.”

“On behalf of cancer advocates across California, the American Cancer Society Cancer Action Network (ACS CAN) we would like to applaud the Governor for signing SB 1172," said Autumn Ogden-Smith ACS CAN California Government Relations Director. "Cancer remains a leading cause of death in California. Breast cancer remains the most common cancer among women. The CBCRF and CCRF are vital tools being used to try to prevent, treat, and cure cancer. Ensuring both funds remain on state tax forms is critical in continuing ACS CAN's mission of reducing the cancer burden for everyone in our state. We are grateful to Senator Shannon Grove for championing this important measure."

“The University of California is proud to administer these important programs and distribute these funds to researchers to support high impact cancer and breast cancer research,” said Jennifer Chase, Legislative Director, University of California Office of the President. “We are thankful to Senator Grove and Governor Newsom for extending these tax donation checkoffs and allowing taxpayer donations to fund innovative research that catalyzes cancer breakthroughs.”

These two funds are administered by the California Breast Cancer Research Program and the UC Cancer Research Coordinating Committee in the UC Office of the President. The California Breast Cancer Research Program (CBCRP) was established by the 1993 Breast Cancer Act and is responsible for administering funding for breast cancer research in the State of California. Breast cancer is the most common cancer among women. Over the past six years, the CBCRF raised over $2.7 million. Funding generated through the voluntary tax check-off box on the state’s tax forms has provided an important and stable revenue stream for the program.

Similarly, the California Cancer Research Fund (CCRF), established in 2008, has provided an important resource for research on the causes and treatments of cancer, expanding community-based education on cancer, and providing culturally sensitive and appropriate prevention and awareness activities targeted toward communities that are disproportionately at risk or afflicted by cancer. The CCRF tax check-off has generated over $2.9 million over the past six years. Historically, both the CBCRF and the CCRF have ranked among the top seven of the 20 voluntary contribution funds receiving donations through the tax checkoff program. Both of these funds would have been eliminated from the state tax forms next year without the passage of SB 1172.

SB 1172 will extend these two voluntary income tax check-off programs and will continue to provide critical funding to underwrite breast cancer research, cancer research and education efforts.

SB 1172 was signed into law by Governor Newsom on July 15, 2024.

Capitol Office

1021 O Street, Room 7150 Sacramento, CA 95814 Phone: (916) 651-4012 Fax: (916) 651-4916

Bakersfield Office

5701 Truxtun Ave., Suite 150 Bakersfield, CA 93309 Phone: (661) 323-0443 Fax: (661) 323-0446

Fresno Office

567 W. Shaw Ave., Suite A-3 Fresno, CA 93704 Phone:  559-243-8580

facebook Facebook

twitter Twitter

instagram Instagram

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

Home

About Shannon Biography Committees 12th Senate District Map

Biography

Committees

12th Senate District Map

Legislation My Legislation Bill Search Submit a Legislative Proposal

My Legislation

Bill Search

Submit a Legislative Proposal

Newsroom Releases / Editorials Photos

Releases / Editorials

Photos

Resources California Senate Fellows Program Coronavirus Information Education Register to Vote Unclaimed Property Veteran Resources

California Senate Fellows Program

Coronavirus Information

Education

Register to Vote

Unclaimed Property

Veteran Resources

Contact me My Offices E-mail the Senator Subscribe

My Offices

E-mail the Senator

Subscribe

Senator Grove’s bill to continue funding for cancer research signed by Governor Newsom

More News

View All

Breadcrumb

Aug 29
Senator Shannon Grove Celebrates Advancement of Key Bills for Special Education and Rural Healthcare, Expresses Disappointment Over Scrapping of Leno’s Law
Aug 27
VIDEO: Celebrity advocate Paris Hilton calls for passage of child protection measure ahead of key vote
Aug 25
Senator Shannon Grove and Assemblyman David Tangipa  Honor Retired NFL Quarterback, Derek Carr
Aug 21
Senator Shannon Grove opposes Democrats' attempt to override the will of California voters