Senator Tony Strickland ( R-Huntington Beach ) has been fighting on behalf of California drivers to stop the gas tax, which goes into effect today, July 1. While the governor and Democrats have failed to stop this increase, Senator Strickland has taken action by asking drivers to sign a petition to Stop the Gas Tax Hike and introducing legislation. To make matters even worse, the governor’s controversial regulatory program, the Low Carbon Fuel Standard (LCFS), also goes into effect on July 1. This regulation is expected to raise gas prices by up to 65 cents per gallon. With all of the taxes and fees, California drivers are paying around $1.50 more for a gallon of unleaded gas compare d to the rest of the country.

Senator Strickland issued the following statement:

“The Democrats and governor’s inaction in Sacramento to address this issue is a serious failure of leadership. With household budgets already stretched to the limit, this gas increase comes at the worst possible time.

“The legislature has the power to stop these increases – let me repeat that – if the majority party and the governor truly want to tackle the affordability crisis, they have the ability to do so because this is a no brainer.

“I want to thank the thousands who have joined me in signing my petition to stop the gas tax hike. I am committed to restoring common sense and ensuring that your voice is heard in Sacramento."

Two major oil refineries that produce nearly 20% of the state oil production are set for closure in 2026, and a report by USC Associate Professor Michael Mische warned that drivers could see soaring gas prices as high as $8 per gallon in 2026. As a legislative fix to the increasing gas tax, Senator Strickland introduced Senate Bill 94 to defund the failed high-speed rail project and redirect those funds to lower the gas tax. Senate Democrats killed the bill in the Senate Revenue and Taxation Committee.

Capitol:

District Office:

301 Main Street, Suite 212 Huntington Beach, CA 92648 (714) 374-4000

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

<d

Home

About Tony Biography Committees

Biography

Committees

Newsroom Releases / Opinions Newsletters Audio / Video Photos

Releases / Opinions

Newsletters

Audio / Video

Photos

Contact Me District Map My Offices Scheduling Requests

District Map

My Offices

Scheduling Requests

Senator Strickland: Democrats, Governor Fail to Stop the Gas Tax Increase

Breadcrumb