Dr. Cherina Betters

Sacramento - Senator Ochoa Bogh (R-Yucaipa) has honored Dr. Cherina Betters, Chief of Equity and Access for San Bernardino County Superintendent of Schools, as the 23rd Senate District’s Woman of the Year 2021.

“Dr. Betters has been a tireless champion for children. She has selflessly served her family and community. Admirably, she has devoted her career to ensure students have access to a life empowering education regardless of their background or circumstance,” said Ochoa Bogh. “She addresses adversity with a healthy mindset that is fueled by optimism, compassion, gratitude and love. She has been a beacon of hope for many. It is my great privilege to name her as my very first Woman of the Year and look forward to her continued success improving educational opportunities for all.”

The first in her family to graduate from college, Dr. Betters holds a Doctorate in the field of Educational Leadership with an emphasis on Social Justice from California State University, San Bernardino.  She earned her master’s degree in Educational Technology from National University and a bachelor’s degree in Political Science from California State University, Fullerton.

A lifelong learner, Dr. Betters has a deep appreciation for education and the educational process. Raised primarily in a single-parent home with severe economic challenges, she passionately believes education provides the means to overcome. Throughout the span of her 18-year career, she has served in the field of K-12 education in the capacity of teacher and administrator serving the students, families and communities of San Bernardino and Riverside Counties.

Dr. Betters is the proud parent of 6 children and one grandchild.

“I thank Senator Ochoa Bogh for this recognition,” remarked Dr. Betters. “Schools just aren’t places for learning they are socializing institutions that create experiences. Those experiences should be inclusive of all students in the learning environment in ways that foster trust, care, and belonging in affirming ways that cultivate a joy. I believe my work has a common theme, connecting people across differences and amplifying the voices of all students and especially those who historically have been underserved. I look forward to working with Senator Ochoa Bogh to champion the work of educators and improve learning outcomes for students by focusing on equity and access while strengthening connections amongst all educational stakeholders.”

The Woman of the Year event was founded in 1987 and celebrates California’s extraordinary women. The award has become an annual Capitol tradition honoring women across the state for their remarkable achievements.

Capitol Office

1021 O Street, Room 7220 Sacramento, CA 95814 Phone: (916) 651-4019 Fax: (916) 651-4919

Redlands Office

1758 Orange Tree Lane, Suite B Redlands, CA 92374 Phone: (909) 335-0271 Fax: (909) 335-0282

facebook Facebook

twitter Twitter

instagram Instagram

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

Home

About Rosilicie My Legislation Current Legislation Legislative Accomplishments 2024 Legislative Accomplishments 2023 Legislative Accomplishments 2022-21 Bill Search Committees Biography

My Legislation Current Legislation Legislative Accomplishments 2024 Legislative Accomplishments 2023 Legislative Accomplishments 2022-21 Bill Search

Current Legislation

Legislative Accomplishments 2024

Legislative Accomplishments 2023

Legislative Accomplishments 2022-21

Bill Search

Committees

Biography

District District Map Virtual Insurance Town Hall Virtual PSPS Town Hall Wildfire Resources

District Map

Virtual Insurance Town Hall

Virtual PSPS Town Hall

Wildfire Resources

Newsroom Releases/Editorials

Releases/Editorials

Contact Me Constituent Services E-mail the Senator Look Ahead Mobile Office Hours My Offices State Agencies Subscribe

Constituent Services

E-mail the Senator

Look Ahead

Mobile Office Hours

My Offices

State Agencies

Subscribe

Senator Rosilicie Ochoa Bogh Honors Dr. Cherina Betters as 23rd Senate District Woman of the Year

Breadcrumb