Senator Shannon Grove (R-Bakersfield) is pleased to announce that two of her priority bills are moving forward after passing through a major legislative hurdle in the Assembly Appropriations Committee.

“Today marked an important milestone for several of my legislative priority bills. I am pleased to announce the passage of SB 373, which aims to advance protections for our most vulnerable special education students placed in out-of-state nonpublic schools,” said Senator Shannon Grove. “I extend my deepest gratitude to Paris Hilton for using her powerful voice to advocate for these children and shining a bright light on their needs. This bipartisan legislation ensures enhanced oversight and care for California students placed in facilities far from home.”

“I’m thrilled to share that my bill, SB 246 to help train more doctors in California’s underserved areas, just passed the Assembly Appropriations Committee today!” said Senator Shannon Grove. “This bill sets up a new Medi-Cal funding program for many rural hospitals, especially in places such as the San Joaquin Valley, Inland Empire, and rural north, to help their residency programs access federal funding. A huge thank you to the District Hospital Leadership Forum for their support in ensuring our communities have the doctors and care they deserve.”

“I am deeply disappointed that once again, the California state legislature did not prioritize California’s Classic car culture and the enthusiasts who were relying on this measure to pass,” said Senator Shannon Grove. “Leno’s Law would have simply allowed for a few additional classic car model years to receive a full smog exemption—a much needed update on an antiquated law. Sadly, today California said no to helping preserve these rolling pieces of history and let down classic car clubs across the state from low riders, to hot rods and every American classic in between. Leno’s Law was not just about the cars, it was about the enthusiasts behind the wheel.”

The measures will next be heard on the Assembly floor, followed by a final vote in the Senate before the Legislative Session adjourns on September 12 th .

Capitol Office

1021 O Street, Room 7150 Sacramento, CA 95814 Phone: (916) 651-4012 Fax: (916) 651-4916

Bakersfield Office

5701 Truxtun Ave., Suite 150 Bakersfield, CA 93309 Phone: (661) 323-0443 Fax: (661) 323-0446

Fresno Office

567 W. Shaw Ave., Suite A-3 Fresno, CA 93704 Phone:  559-243-8580

facebook Facebook

twitter Twitter

instagram Instagram

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

Home

About Shannon Biography Committees 12th Senate District Map

Biography

Committees

12th Senate District Map

Legislation My Legislation Bill Search Submit a Legislative Proposal

My Legislation

Bill Search

Submit a Legislative Proposal

Newsroom Releases / Editorials Photos

Releases / Editorials

Photos

Resources California Senate Fellows Program Coronavirus Information Education Register to Vote Unclaimed Property Veteran Resources

California Senate Fellows Program

Coronavirus Information

Education

Register to Vote

Unclaimed Property

Veteran Resources

Contact me My Offices E-mail the Senator Subscribe

My Offices

E-mail the Senator

Subscribe

Senator Shannon Grove Celebrates Advancement of Key Bills for Special Education and Rural Healthcare, Expresses Disappointment Over Scrapping of Leno’s Law

More News

View All

Breadcrumb

Aug 29
Senator Shannon Grove Celebrates Advancement of Key Bills for Special Education and Rural Healthcare, Expresses Disappointment Over Scrapping of Leno’s Law
Aug 27
VIDEO: Celebrity advocate Paris Hilton calls for passage of child protection measure ahead of key vote
Aug 25
Senator Shannon Grove and Assemblyman David Tangipa  Honor Retired NFL Quarterback, Derek Carr
Aug 21
Senator Shannon Grove opposes Democrats' attempt to override the will of California voters