Sacramento – State Senator Brian Jones (R-Santee) announced today he has introduced a package of five measures aimed at moving Californians currently homeless and living on public streets, sidewalks, and parks into temporary, transitional housing.

“The Democrat’s current ‘Housing First’ mandate – which prohibits programs from doing assessments for violent tendencies, mental health challenges, or substance abuse issues – is a disaster, and is definitely not working,” stated Senator Jones.  “Additionally, Governor Newsom’s recently conceived plan for ‘Regional Overlords’ has been ripped by the Legislative Analyst and homeless advocates.  Clearly, a new approach is needed.”

Jones’s five-bill package emphasizes compassionate assessment of each homeless person’s behavior, mental health, and substance issues before placing that person in a temporary housing situation.  The measures also emphasize utilization of existing non-profits, charities, and faith-based housing programs rather than state government suddenly setting up new homeless housing bureaucracies.

“Organizations such as the Salvation Army (nationally), Father Joe’s Villages (San Diego), St. Paul’s Senior Services and PACE program (San Diego), and St. John’s (Sacramento) already have proven, successful temporary or transitional shelters and housing,” said Jones.  “The state, rather than coming in to take over and mismanage these programs, should instead provide grant-style funding to these successful programs.”

Specifically, Jones’s five measures would do the following:

SB 1200 gives local governments additional funds to provide homeless individuals mental health services, if the local government can demonstrate their enforcement of quality of life misdemeanors, such as public drug use, public defecation, blocking the sidewalk.

SB 1201 allows grant funds to be awarded to any agency or department that can demonstrate success in helping the homeless community, rather than limiting funding to organizations that practice California’s “Housing First” model, which forbids requiring sobriety in order to receive services.

SB 1202 grants funds to non-profits to create or expand employment and job-skill training programs for homeless individuals. These programs offer opportunities for homeless individuals to develop job skills and gain work experience to gain future employment.

SB 1203 grants funds to local law enforcement agencies that wish to establish and operate homeless outreach teams (also known as a “wrap around service” team) for the purpose of coordinating housing and supportive services to ensure community care. These teams are compiled of housing and homeless service provider agencies, medical personnel, and legal counsel that immediately assess the needs of the homeless individuals on the street, and immediately determine the best option for their housing and/or medical treatment. This bill also allows volunteers such as nonprofits or graduate students to participate on these teams.

SB 1204 encourages schools and school districts to collaborate with organizations that provide identification of, and provide services to, homeless children, such as counseling, social welfare services, meals, and housing.

“I’ve spent countless hours discussing these issues with experts and researching programs throughout the state that are showing results. I’ve looked into many models proven successful in other states and countries. I’ve reached the conclusion that many communities and organizations, inside and outside of our state, are already making progress, and we should follow those models. There is no need to reinvent the wheel,” said Senator Jones.

“Last year, I tried to discuss this with Governor Newsom and Mayor Steinberg (in his capacity as Co-Chair of the Governor’s Homeless Commission).  Neither of them was interested in having the conversation then, but perhaps they’ve finally woken up to the issues our state is facing and will be willing to talk now.”

Capitol Office

1021 O Street, Room 7640 Sacramento, CA 95814 Phone: (916) 651-4040 Fax: (916) 651-4940

Scripps Ranch Office

10650 Treena Street #110 San Diego, CA 92131 Phone: (858) 547-3818

Escondido Office

720 N. Broadway, Suite 110 Escondido, CA 92025 Phone: (760) 796-4655

facebook Facebook

twitter Twitter

instagram Instagram

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

Home

About Brian Biography

Biography

Legislation My Legislation Committees Bill Search

My Legislation

Committees

Bill Search

Newsroom Releases/Editorials In The News Audio/Video Are You Kidding Me? Photos Media Kit

Releases/Editorials

In The News

Audio/Video

Are You Kidding Me?

Photos

Media Kit

Contact Me Certificate Request District Internship Program District Map E-mail the Senator Legislative Proposal My Offices Subscribe to the Mailing List

Certificate Request

District Internship Program

District Map

E-mail the Senator

Legislative Proposal

My Offices

Subscribe to the Mailing List

Senator Brian Jones Introduces Legislative Package to Address Homelessness Crisis

More News

ICYMI

View All

Breadcrumb

Aug 6
California Republicans’ Growing Impact on Social Media
Jul 16
Leader Jones Stands on Steps of the Capitol Opposing the Anti-Charter School Bill
Jul 16
AB 84 Charter Schools Press Conference
Jul 15
Leader Jones Demands Accountability on Dangerous Sexually Violent Predator Program

Jun 17
2025
$8-a-gallon gas? Senate Minority Leader Brian W. Jones requests audit of gas price hikes
Jun 9
2025
Nixed bill could have prevented LA unrest, California minority leader says
Jun 8
2025
California lawmaker warns Menendez brothers' case is driving return of bill to release thousands of killers
Jun 3
2025
Ramona nonprofit, resident recognized with Senate District 40 awards