Today, Sen. Marie Alvarado-Gil ( R-Jackson) issued the following statement after voting no on ABx2-1 (Hart), a bill sponsored by Governor Newsom as part of his extraordinary session on gas "price gouging." While the measure has been marketed as a solution to lower gas prices, it is likely to do the opposite by expanding the California Energy Commission’s (CEC) authority to impose more restrictions on oil refiners.

“Time after time, Sacramento’s progressive Democrats fail to reflect on their policies and the burdens they place on everyday Californians. It’s just one reason why I left the supermajority,” said Senator Alvarado-Gil. “This week, taxpayers footed the bill for lawmakers to pass legislation that won’t provide any immediate relief on high gas prices—in fact, it’ll probably drive them up. I’m happy to support solutions that keep money in families’ pockets, but this doesn’t address the root cause.”

ABx2-1 allows the California Energy Commission (CEC) and its Division of Petroleum Market Oversight (DPMO) to require oil refiners to maintain minimum gasoline and diesel inventories. While Governor Newsom claims that this will increase transparency in gas pricing, it is, in reality, more red tape that will raise costs for consumers, as refiners could be forced to limit their distribution of fuel.

On top of this, the California Air Resources Board (CARB) is set to vote next month on its low carbon fuel standard (LCFS), which could increase gas prices by as much as 47 to 65 cents per gallon. Californians currently pay the highest gas prices in the nation, averaging $4.67 per gallon, according to AAA .

“Whether it’s the CEC or CARB, giving more power to unelected bureaucrats isn’t the answer. It only weakens efforts to create better transparency and accountability in California. And as the voice of my constituents in Sacramento, I can’t support that,” Alvarado-Gil concluded.

Capitol

Modesto

1020 15th Street, Ste 21 Modesto, CA 95354 Phone: (209) 576-6001

El Dorado Hills

4364 Town Center Blvd, Suite 313 El Dorado Hills, CA 95762 Phone: (916) 933-8680

Privacy Policy

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

<d

Home

About Marie Biography District Map

Biography

District Map

Legislation Bill Search

Bill Search

Newsroom Press Releases Op-Eds

Press Releases

Op-Eds

Contact Me District Offices Email the Senator Scheduling Requests State Resources Subscribe

District Offices

Email the Senator

Scheduling Requests

State Resources

Subscribe

Senator Alvarado-Gil stands up for California drivers, votes NO on Newsom-backed oil bill

Breadcrumb