Roger Niello (R-Fair Oaks) has been appointed to the Little Hoover Commission by the Senate Rules Committee, chaired by Senate President pro Tempore Mike McGuire (D-Healdsburg). Senator Niello replaces Senator Scott Wilk (R-Santa Clarita), who served on the Commission from 2023 until he termed out of office in 2024. Senator Wilk automatically left the Commission when his legislative service ended.

“It is both a privilege and a profound responsibility to be appointed to the Little Hoover Commission and contribute to its mission of improving state government. I am looking forward to collaborating with my fellow Commissioners to make a meaningful impact in shaping a government that addresses Californians’ needs,” said Senator Niello.

Niello has been Senator for California’s Sixth Senate District, representing portions of Placer and Sacramento Counties, since 2022. In 1974, he joined his family business, the Niello Auto Group, and spent the next 25 years running retail automobile dealerships with his family partners. Niello was elected to the Sacramento County Board of Supervisors, in a special election in 1999 and in 2004 was elected to the California State Assembly and re-elected twice. After his time in the Assembly concluded, he accepted an appointment as President and CEO of the Sacramento Metro Chamber of Commerce. Niello has served as President of the Golden State Voter Participation, Chair of the Sacramento Valley Lincoln Club Board, Co-Chair of the California Civic Learning Partnership in Sacramento County, member of the University of California Center Sacramento Advisory Board, the Dignity Health Sacramento Service Area Hospital Community Board, the Greater Sacramento Economic Council Board, and Sacramento Rotary. In February 2011, he was named the University of California Center Sacramento Governance Fellow, the first to serve in that position.

Senator Niello earned his undergraduate degree from the University of California at Berkeley and his Master’s Degree from the University of California at Los Angeles.

About the Little Hoover Commission:

The Little Hoover Commission is America’s only permanent, independent citizens commission working to improve state government. A nonpartisan oversight agency created in 1962, the Commission includes 13 Commissioners appointed by the Governor and legislative leaders. The Commission’s mission is to investigate state operations and promote efficiency, economy, and improved service.

Capitol

Roseville

2200A Douglas Blvd, Ste 100 Roseville, CA 95661 Phone: (916) 772-0571 Fax: (916) 772-0589

Rancho Cordova

2729 Prospect Park Drive, Suite 130 Rancho Cordova, CA 95670 Phone: (916) 464-3980 Fax: (916) 464-3985

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

<d

Home

About Roger Biography Committees

Biography

Committees

Legislation Bill Search

Bill Search

Newsroom Press Releases District Messages In The News Audio / Video Photo Gallery

Press Releases

District Messages

In The News

Audio / Video

Photo Gallery

Contact Me Email the Senator My Offices District Map Subscribe

Email the Senator

My Offices

District Map

Subscribe

Senator Roger Niello Appointed to Little Hoover Commission

Breadcrumb