Today Senator Suzette Martinez Valladares (R – Santa Clarita) will be introducing a critical amendment to Assembly Constitutional Amendment 8 (ACA 8), which seeks to implement redistricting for California’s Congressional District maps.

“If we are going to move forward with a law that takes redistricting power out of the hands of the voter-approved commission, then at the very least, we must put up meaningful safeguards against corruption,” said Valladares.

The proposed amendment would prohibit any member of the Legislature who votes in favor of ACA 8 from running for elected office for ten years—a restriction that already applies to the citizens who serve on the existing independent redistricting commission.

“This amendment simply extends to every legislator who votes in favor of the measure, the same ten-year candidacy moratorium that applies to the citizens who currently draw the lines,” Valladares stated. “The people of California deserve ironclad guarantees that those in charge of redistricting aren’t acting in their own self-interest.”

More than 60% of California voters supported the creation of the Independent Citizens Redistricting Commission, frustrated by gerrymandered maps that prioritized political power over community representation.

“Let’s be clear: you cannot in good conscience demand that ordinary citizens forfeit the right to run for office for a decade, and then exempt the politicians now reclaiming that power. There is a word for that—hypocrisy,” Valladares said.

This amendment represents a values test for the Legislature: “This is a test of whether this body values integrity over expediency, fairness over partisanship, and accountability over ambition.”

“If ACA 8 is truly about fairness, then supporting this amendment should be a no-brainer. If everything is above board, what’s the objection?” Valladares asked. “The people are watching, and they know a power grab when they see one.”

With today's vote, Valladares is calling on fellow lawmakers to join in supporting the amendment and uphold the ethical standards Californians expect and deserve.

Capitol

Valencia Office

25060 West Ave Stanford, Suite 130 Valencia, CA 91355 Phone: (661) 257-1204

Lancaster Office

42505 10th St West Suite 109 Lancaster, CA 93534 Phone: (661) 729-6232

Adelanto Office

11600 Air Expressway Adelanto, CA 92301 Phone: (760) 246-2911

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

<d

Home

About Suzette Biography Committees District Map

Biography

Committees

District Map

Legislation My Legislation Bill Search

My Legislation

Bill Search

Newsroom Releases / Opinions Media Kit

Releases / Opinions

Media Kit

Contact Me Email the Senator My Offices

Email the Senator

My Offices

Senator Valladares Introduces Amendment to Ensure Ethical Safeguards in Redistricting Power Grab

Breadcrumb