Sacramento – State Senator Brian Jones (R-Santee) announced today he is coauthoring two bipartisan measures by Assemblyman Jim Patterson (R-Fresno), aimed at assisting the victims of human trafficking.

Human trafficking is defined by the United States Department of Homeland Security (DHS) as: “ the use of force, fraud, or coercion to obtain some type of labor or commercial sex act. ”  The victims are often children and frequently are runaways or missing youth. All-too-often, these vulnerable young people, whose average age is 15 years old, are away from home for the first time. They can become easy prey for dangerous pedophiles, pimps, recruiters, and enforcers. Sadly, one in seven runaways are likely to become a sex trafficking victim.

After being rescued or escaping from their captors, human trafficking victims face a multitude of obstacles in trying to get their own life back.  Some of these challenges involve the victim trying to clear their name and record for non-violent offenses they were forced to participate in while under the control of their captor.  Clearing their record allows victims to remove hindrances to them such as seeking employment or volunteering at their child’s school.

“Once out of the confines of human trafficking, many victims still face ongoing struggles to regain real freedom and control of their lives,” stated Senator Jones.  “We need to make court procedures more friendly to human trafficking victims that are trying to get a fresh start for themselves and their families.”

Specifically, the legislation coauthored by Jones does the following:

Assembly Bill 2868 allows a human trafficking victim to petition the court to vacate a conviction without having to first pay all fines and fees, and serve probation, associated with the offense.  Under current law, courts can refuse to even consider a victim’s petition until all fines, fees, and probation terms are met.  Sometimes these requirements are so costly a victim is never able to get out from under them.

Assembly Bill 2869 provides that a human trafficking victim may petition the court to vacate a conviction without having to appear in court in person. Under current law the victim, who may fear for their safety or may have moved out of the country, still must appear in court in person.  AB 2869 allows a court to accept a victim’s testimony through electronic means such a video-conference or over the phone.  AB 2869 also removes all time limits within which a victim is currently required to petition the court to vacate their conviction.

Both AB 2868 and 2869 have several Democrat and Republican coauthors and are awaiting referral to policy committee.

Capitol Office

1021 O Street, Room 7640 Sacramento, CA 95814 Phone: (916) 651-4040 Fax: (916) 651-4940

Scripps Ranch Office

10650 Treena Street #110 San Diego, CA 92131 Phone: (858) 547-3818

Escondido Office

720 N. Broadway, Suite 110 Escondido, CA 92025 Phone: (760) 796-4655

facebook Facebook

twitter Twitter

instagram Instagram

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

Home

About Brian Biography

Biography

Legislation My Legislation Committees Bill Search

My Legislation

Committees

Bill Search

Newsroom Releases/Editorials In The News Audio/Video Are You Kidding Me? Photos Media Kit

Releases/Editorials

In The News

Audio/Video

Are You Kidding Me?

Photos

Media Kit

Contact Me Certificate Request District Internship Program District Map E-mail the Senator Legislative Proposal My Offices Subscribe to the Mailing List

Certificate Request

District Internship Program

District Map

E-mail the Senator

Legislative Proposal

My Offices

Subscribe to the Mailing List

Senator Brian Jones Coauthors Bipartisan Legislation to Assist Victims of Human Trafficking

More News

ICYMI

View All

Breadcrumb

Aug 6
California Republicans’ Growing Impact on Social Media
Jul 16
Leader Jones Stands on Steps of the Capitol Opposing the Anti-Charter School Bill
Jul 16
AB 84 Charter Schools Press Conference
Jul 15
Leader Jones Demands Accountability on Dangerous Sexually Violent Predator Program

Jun 17
2025
$8-a-gallon gas? Senate Minority Leader Brian W. Jones requests audit of gas price hikes
Jun 9
2025
Nixed bill could have prevented LA unrest, California minority leader says
Jun 8
2025
California lawmaker warns Menendez brothers' case is driving return of bill to release thousands of killers
Jun 3
2025
Ramona nonprofit, resident recognized with Senate District 40 awards