Senator Rosilicie Ochoa Bogh (R-Yucaipa) has completed her one-year term as Chair of the Inland Empire Caucus. Assemblymember James Ramos will succeed her while she continues her leadership as vice-chair.

“I am grateful my colleagues entrusted me to lead the Inland Empire caucus for the past year,” said Senator Ochoa Bogh. “The Inland Empire is a vibrant region with unique opportunities and challenges. I am happy that together we were able to advocate for bipartisan solutions that will directly benefit residents and amplify the voice of our region.”

As chair of the Inland Empire Caucus, Ochoa Bogh accomplished many important feats. Of note, she led the Inland Empire priority bill process, where members may submit bills for the caucus’ support and consideration. This legislative priority established the caucus as a group of members bringing a united voice to Sacramento representing the needs of their constituents.

The people of the Inland Empire have vastly diverse cultures, job opportunities, and community priorities. Through Senator Ochoa Bogh’s leadership, she ensured that each Assemblymember and Senator was given an equal opportunity to advocate for their constituents through the caucus.

One of the major issues that Senator Ochoa Bogh and the caucus engaged in is the continued problem of illegal marijuana growth sites. Through the Senator’s leadership, the caucus has been able to tour a seized illegal grow site and have an open dialogue with some of the influential community groups and organizations working to combat these growth sites, such as the Sheriffs for both Riverside and San Bernardino County.

During her tenure, the Senator organized multiple tours in the district with the collaboration of members. These tours showcased how the public policy decisions made in Sacramento effect the lives of everyday constituents in the Inland Empire. These tours highlighted the innovation and challenges facing the Inland Empire, as showcased on the caucus’ tour of a hydrogen power facility, the Salton Sea and lithium manufacturing sites.

Senator Ochoa Bogh is most proud of her work to garner bipartisan, unanimous support for the caucus’ transportation funding budget request letter. This letter outlines mobility solutions for the region’s transportation challenges. The $2.245 billion request will support local, regional transportation planning agencies, the Riverside County Transportation Commission (RCTC), and the San Bernardino County Transportation Authority (SBCTA) to reduce traffic congestion and bolster the region’s economic opportunity. Thanks to Senator Ochoa Bogh’s leadership, 19 members of the Inland Empire Caucus signed on to support this letter. The members who chose to respectfully remove themselves from this request did so due to their duties and responsibilities as chairs of the Appropriations subcommittees.

Another major success for the caucus was securing additional funding for water infrastructure in the Inland Empire. This investment in the region’s infrastructure is set to stimulate local economies and create jobs. The budget trailer bill allocated $985 million to the State Water Resources Control Board, to assist residential and commercial customers with water and wastewater arrearages, and address revenue shortfalls.

In one of her final acts as Chair, Senator Ochoa Bogh sent a letter to the California Debt Limit Allocation Committee (CDLAC) on behalf of the caucus. This letter intends to ensure that the Inland Empire receives its funding it needs to improve their respective communities.

“I am excited about the future of the Inland Empire Caucus and plan to continue my role as an active member,” said Senator Ochoa Bogh. “I am thankful for my time as Chair and will continue to support the caucus and chair to represent and ensure the people of the Inland Empire thrive.”

Capitol Office

1021 O Street, Room 7220 Sacramento, CA 95814 Phone: (916) 651-4019 Fax: (916) 651-4919

Redlands Office

1758 Orange Tree Lane, Suite B Redlands, CA 92374 Phone: (909) 335-0271 Fax: (909) 335-0282

facebook Facebook

twitter Twitter

instagram Instagram

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

Home

About Rosilicie My Legislation Current Legislation Legislative Accomplishments 2024 Legislative Accomplishments 2023 Legislative Accomplishments 2022-21 Bill Search Committees Biography

My Legislation Current Legislation Legislative Accomplishments 2024 Legislative Accomplishments 2023 Legislative Accomplishments 2022-21 Bill Search

Current Legislation

Legislative Accomplishments 2024

Legislative Accomplishments 2023

Legislative Accomplishments 2022-21

Bill Search

Committees

Biography

District District Map Virtual Insurance Town Hall Virtual PSPS Town Hall Wildfire Resources

District Map

Virtual Insurance Town Hall

Virtual PSPS Town Hall

Wildfire Resources

Newsroom Releases/Editorials

Releases/Editorials

Contact Me Constituent Services E-mail the Senator Look Ahead Mobile Office Hours My Offices State Agencies Subscribe

Constituent Services

E-mail the Senator

Look Ahead

Mobile Office Hours

My Offices

State Agencies

Subscribe

Senator Ochoa Bogh Reflects On Her Time as Chair of the Inland Empire Caucus

Breadcrumb