With a hearing coming up on the planned release of serial Sexually Violent Offender (SVP) Douglas Badger this Friday, Senator Brian W. Jones (R-Santee) issued the following statement in addition to sending a letter to the court protesting the planned placement of Badger in the community of Borrego Springs:

“Californians long for the days of Governors such as George Deukmejian and Pete Wilson, who had the courage to say ‘NO’ to the so-called experts that claim it is safe to release sexually violent predators into residential neighborhoods.

“Liberty Healthcare, the Newsom Administration’s front group, somehow conned a judge recently into releasing child predator Michael Martinez into Borrego Springs, even though a few years earlier, after being released in the community of Boulevard, Mitchell was found jumping locked gates and was thankfully taken back to the state hospital.

“Gavin Newsom’s political appointees at the Department of State Hospitals are pushing again for yet another sexually violent predator – Douglas Badger – to also be released in Borrego Springs.  So far, previous judges thankfully have blocked Badger from living in other proposed homes in the Borrego Springs and Mt. Helix areas.

“Rather than hiding behind his appointees and contractors, Governor Newsom ought to follow the lead of former governors Pete Wilson and George Deukmejian.  Both of these Governors got creative and ordered that dangerous parolees be housed in trailers at state correctional facilities.”

In 1994, state officials tried to parole convicted serial rapist Melvin Carter into several Bay Area communities.  Wilson overruled his own staff and ordered that Carter serve his parole in a trailer under guard at the Devil’s Garden Fire Conservation Camp in Modoc County.

In 1987, state officials tried to parole sadistic torturer-rapist Lawrence Singleton to several Bay Area communities.  Deukmejian ordered that Singleton serve his parole in a trailer on the grounds of San Quentin Prison.

Residents concerned about the release of Douglas Badger can attend and testify at his placement hearing this Friday, August 5th, at 9:00 am in Department 1702 of the San Diego Superior Court, 1100 Union Street, San Diego before the Honorable Theodore M. Weathers.  Additional details about the hearing and Badger can be found on the San Diego County District Attorney’s website.

Jones is one of the leading legislators in Sacramento fighting against the state arbitrarily releasing and placing SVPs, often in unsuspecting rural and suburban communities.  He has publicly supported local residents and groups who protest against these proposed placements; he has authored bipartisan legislation such as his Senate Bill 841 “The SAFE Act,” which would have helped prevent SVP dumping; and he has taken on appointees of the Newsom Administration who have a demonstrated lack of commitment to protecting the public.

Capitol Office

1021 O Street, Room 7640 Sacramento, CA 95814 Phone: (916) 651-4040 Fax: (916) 651-4940

Scripps Ranch Office

10650 Treena Street #110 San Diego, CA 92131 Phone: (858) 547-3818

Escondido Office

720 N. Broadway, Suite 110 Escondido, CA 92025 Phone: (760) 796-4655

facebook Facebook

twitter Twitter

instagram Instagram

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

Home

About Brian Biography

Biography

Legislation My Legislation Committees Bill Search

My Legislation

Committees

Bill Search

Newsroom Releases/Editorials In The News Audio/Video Are You Kidding Me? Photos Media Kit

Releases/Editorials

In The News

Audio/Video

Are You Kidding Me?

Photos

Media Kit

Contact Me Certificate Request District Internship Program District Map E-mail the Senator Legislative Proposal My Offices Subscribe to the Mailing List

Certificate Request

District Internship Program

District Map

E-mail the Senator

Legislative Proposal

My Offices

Subscribe to the Mailing List

Senator Jones:  Newsom Still Trying to Dump Sexually Violent Predators in East County

More News

ICYMI

View All

Breadcrumb

Aug 6
California Republicans’ Growing Impact on Social Media
Jul 16
Leader Jones Stands on Steps of the Capitol Opposing the Anti-Charter School Bill
Jul 16
AB 84 Charter Schools Press Conference
Jul 15
Leader Jones Demands Accountability on Dangerous Sexually Violent Predator Program

Jun 17
2025
$8-a-gallon gas? Senate Minority Leader Brian W. Jones requests audit of gas price hikes
Jun 9
2025
Nixed bill could have prevented LA unrest, California minority leader says
Jun 8
2025
California lawmaker warns Menendez brothers' case is driving return of bill to release thousands of killers
Jun 3
2025
Ramona nonprofit, resident recognized with Senate District 40 awards