Senator Rosilicie Ochoa Bogh (R-Yucaipa) is pleased to announce that her advocacy efforts have resulted in significant funding allocations in the California state budget to improve the lives of residents in the Inland Empire. These crucial investments will directly benefit the County of San Bernardino and the Riverside University Health System.

“These funding allocations stand as evidence of my resolute commitment to bolstering the welfare of our local communities,” said Senator Ochoa Bogh. “I take immense pride in my pivotal role in safeguarding these crucial resources, which will improve public services and fuel the progress and prosperity of our residents. I look forward to continuing to work persistently to champion the concerns of my constituents, ensuring that their voices and concerns are heard in Sacramento.”

Senator Ochoa Bogh's steadfast dedication to her constituents has led to the following funding achievements:

County of San Bernardino - $1,500,000 for the Purchase of Front Loader and Skid Steer Snow Blowers (Permanently stored in the Mountain Communities)

Recognizing the challenges posed by snowfall in the region, Senator Ochoa Bogh tirelessly advocated for $1,500,000 in funding to support the County of San Bernardino's acquisition of front loader and skid steer snow blowers that will be permanently stored in the mountains. This investment will significantly improve snow removal operations, ensuring safer and more accessible roads during winter storms. The enhanced mobility and increased safety will positively impact the lives of residents and businesses in the Inland Empire.

“This significant funding will help the County purchase new heavy equipment that will help us prepare for future natural disasters,” said Supervisor Dawn Rowe, Chair of the San Bernardino County Board of Supervisors. “We are very grateful to Senator Ochoa Bogh for supporting the County and our residents. This funding will make a big difference in Forest Falls and Angelus Oaks in the years ahead.”

Riverside University Health System - $2,500,000 for Children and Youth Services Facilities Planning and Design Costs

Senator Ochoa Bogh places great importance on the well-being of young Californians. Through her unwavering advocacy, she successfully secured $2,500,000 in funding for the planning and design costs of Children and Youth Services facilities at the Riverside University Health System. This allocation will enable the creation of state-of-the-art facilities that cater to the specific needs of children and youth in the Inland Empire, fostering a nurturing environment for their growth and development.

“Riverside University Health System is thankful to have a champion like Senator Ochoa Bogh,” said Dr. Matthew Chang, Director, RUHS Behavioral Health. “This funding is vital for the continued care and support of some of the most vulnerable members of our community, specifically Riverside County’s youth, and their families.”

Capitol Office

1021 O Street, Room 7220 Sacramento, CA 95814 Phone: (916) 651-4019 Fax: (916) 651-4919

Redlands Office

1758 Orange Tree Lane, Suite B Redlands, CA 92374 Phone: (909) 335-0271 Fax: (909) 335-0282

facebook Facebook

twitter Twitter

instagram Instagram

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

Home

About Rosilicie My Legislation Current Legislation Legislative Accomplishments 2024 Legislative Accomplishments 2023 Legislative Accomplishments 2022-21 Bill Search Committees Biography

My Legislation Current Legislation Legislative Accomplishments 2024 Legislative Accomplishments 2023 Legislative Accomplishments 2022-21 Bill Search

Current Legislation

Legislative Accomplishments 2024

Legislative Accomplishments 2023

Legislative Accomplishments 2022-21

Bill Search

Committees

Biography

District District Map Virtual Insurance Town Hall Virtual PSPS Town Hall Wildfire Resources

District Map

Virtual Insurance Town Hall

Virtual PSPS Town Hall

Wildfire Resources

Newsroom Releases/Editorials

Releases/Editorials

Contact Me Constituent Services E-mail the Senator Look Ahead Mobile Office Hours My Offices State Agencies Subscribe

Constituent Services

E-mail the Senator

Look Ahead

Mobile Office Hours

My Offices

State Agencies

Subscribe

Senator Rosilicie Ochoa Bogh Successfully Advocates and Secures California State Budget Funding to Enhance the Lives of Inland Empire Communities

Breadcrumb