In a major win for mobile homeowners, the Senate Insurance Committee today passed Senate Bill 525 by Senate Minority Leader Brian W. Jones ( R-San Diego ), which will finally ensure that that California’s FAIR Plan provides the same basic property insurance—including full replacement value coverage—for mobile and manufactured homes as it already does for standard residential dwellings. Click here for the bill’s fact sheet.

“Today’s bill passage is a huge step forward for the 500,000 Californians who live in mobile homes and have been left underinsured for far too long,” said Leader Jones. “The key word for SB 525 is equity. This bill simply provides equity to mobile home owners, many of them middle-class and lower-income, who are currently underinsured through no fault of their own.”

The consequences of underinsurance of mobile homes can be seen right now in the Pacific Palisades. In February, fires tore through Palisades Bowl Mobile Estates and Tahitian Terrace in Pacific Palisades. The residents, mostly seniors, lost their homes. Because the FAIR Plan doesn’t offer full replacement coverage to mobile homes, many can’t afford to rebuild.

“What’s happened at the mobile home parks in the Pacific Palisades is the future for every mobile home owner in California. Our SB 525 will prevent more tragedies like these from occurring,” Leader Jones continued .

The idea for SB 525 came directly from a constituent of Leader Jones, Kent Michitsch from Ramona, who testified in support of the bill. For six years, Leader Jones and his team worked alongside Kent Michitsch, trying to find a viable solution for his underinsurance. His story reflects the struggle of countless mobile homeowners across the state, many of whom have been denied the ability to purchase full replacement value coverage for their homes.

“My home is just as much a home to me as anyone else’s is,” said Kent Michitsch. “All manufactured home owners are asking for is the opportunity to replace it in the event of a fire, just like anyone else. Today’s vote gives hope to families like mine who’ve been overlooked for too long. Thank you Senator Jones for standing up for us.”

California’s FAIR Plan was created to be a last resort for homeowners when the private market fails. Many manufactured homeowners are being denied or are unable to obtain full replacement cost coverage. Instead, these homeowners can only secure insurance based on the initial purchase price of their home, rather than its present-day replacement value, leaving them drastically underinsured—especially in California’s increasingly fire-prone environment.

SB 525 does not add anyone new to the FAIR Plan. It simply clarifies that the FAIR Plan must offer mobile home owners the option of paying for full replacement insurance and equal coverage.

SB 525 passed out of the Senate Insurance Committee on a (4-0) vote. The bill now advances to the Senate Floor for consideration.

Capitol Office

1021 O Street, Room 7640 Sacramento, CA 95814 Phone: (916) 651-4040 Fax: (916) 651-4940

Scripps Ranch Office

10650 Treena Street #110 San Diego, CA 92131 Phone: (858) 547-3818

Escondido Office

720 N. Broadway, Suite 110 Escondido, CA 92025 Phone: (760) 796-4655

facebook Facebook

twitter Twitter

instagram Instagram

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

Leader Jones with Kent Michitsch, a constituent from Ramona who testified in support of SB 525.

An aerial view of the Pacific Palisades Bowl Mobile Home Park in Los Angeles on Jan. 18, 2025. The park was completely burned down by the Palisades fire. Photo by Ted Soqui, SIPA USA via Reuters

Home

About Brian Biography

Biography

Legislation My Legislation Committees Bill Search

My Legislation

Committees

Bill Search

Newsroom Releases/Editorials In The News Audio/Video Are You Kidding Me? Photos Media Kit

Releases/Editorials

In The News

Audio/Video

Are You Kidding Me?

Photos

Media Kit

Contact Me Certificate Request District Internship Program District Map E-mail the Senator Legislative Proposal My Offices Subscribe to the Mailing List

Certificate Request

District Internship Program

District Map

E-mail the Senator

Legislative Proposal

My Offices

Subscribe to the Mailing List

Senate Insurance Committee Passes Bill to Protect Mobile Homeowners from Insurance Gaps

More News

ICYMI

View All

Breadcrumb

Aug 6
California Republicans’ Growing Impact on Social Media
Jul 16
Leader Jones Stands on Steps of the Capitol Opposing the Anti-Charter School Bill
Jul 16
AB 84 Charter Schools Press Conference
Jul 15
Leader Jones Demands Accountability on Dangerous Sexually Violent Predator Program

Jun 17
2025
$8-a-gallon gas? Senate Minority Leader Brian W. Jones requests audit of gas price hikes
Jun 9
2025
Nixed bill could have prevented LA unrest, California minority leader says
Jun 8
2025
California lawmaker warns Menendez brothers' case is driving return of bill to release thousands of killers
Jun 3
2025
Ramona nonprofit, resident recognized with Senate District 40 awards