Today, Senate Minority Leader Brian W. Jones (R-San Diego) called out Senate Democrats on the Senate Floor for their failure to care about public safety as it relates to gun violence and fentanyl. Jones’s comments were in opposition to Senate Bill 2, which infringes on the Second Amendment rights of legal Carry Concealed Weapons (CCW) permit holders.

You can watch Leader Jones’s comments here .

“Senate Democrats claim there is a ‘gun addiction’ in California…are you kidding me?,” said Leader Jones. “Let’s talk about a fentanyl addiction in California and the Senate Democrats’ refusal to do anything about it. They proclaim self-righteousness about their unconstitutional gun control measures, but won’t do a damn thing about fentanyl control. Their lack of care for public safety is insulting to the thousands of Californians dying on our streets from drug addiction and gun violence.”

Senate Bill 2 (Portantino, D-Pasadena) makes it even more difficult to obtain a CCW permit in California by increasing fees and adding more bureaucratic red tape to the already cumbersome application process. CCW permit holders in California currently undergo some of the most stringent application and government approval processes in the nation to obtain their permit to legally carry a firearm, a Constitutional right under the Second Amendment.

SB 2 is most likely unconstitutional as it bans legal CCW permit holders from carrying their firearm in 26 types of locations including schools, legislative buildings or parking areas, courts or court parking areas, buses, trains, hospitals, medical offices, nursing homes, urgent care facilities, any buildings or parking areas of that building where alcohol is sold regardless of whether the holder is drinking, playgrounds, youth centers, athletic facilities, stadiums, libraries, airports, religious buildings unless posted, and amusement parks. The bill goes a step further and also prohibits CCW permits holders from carrying firearms in any commercial establishment unless allowance is publicly posted.

SB 2 passed off of the Senate Floor on a 29-9 vote with bipartisan opposition. Senator Marie Alvarado-Gil (D-Jackson) joined the entire California Senate Republican Caucus in opposing the measure while Senators Richard Roth (D-Riverside) and Melissa Hurtado (D-Bakersfield) did not vote. All other Senate Democrats supported the measure. SB 2 now heads to the Assembly for consideration.

Capitol Office

1021 O Street, Room 7640 Sacramento, CA 95814 Phone: (916) 651-4040 Fax: (916) 651-4940

Scripps Ranch Office

10650 Treena Street #110 San Diego, CA 92131 Phone: (858) 547-3818

Escondido Office

720 N. Broadway, Suite 110 Escondido, CA 92025 Phone: (760) 796-4655

facebook Facebook

twitter Twitter

instagram Instagram

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

Home

About Brian Biography

Biography

Legislation My Legislation Committees Bill Search

My Legislation

Committees

Bill Search

Newsroom Releases/Editorials In The News Audio/Video Are You Kidding Me? Photos Media Kit

Releases/Editorials

In The News

Audio/Video

Are You Kidding Me?

Photos

Media Kit

Contact Me Certificate Request District Internship Program District Map E-mail the Senator Legislative Proposal My Offices Subscribe to the Mailing List

Certificate Request

District Internship Program

District Map

E-mail the Senator

Legislative Proposal

My Offices

Subscribe to the Mailing List

Senate Democrats Don’t Care about Public Safety

More News

ICYMI

View All

Breadcrumb

Aug 6
California Republicans’ Growing Impact on Social Media
Jul 16
Leader Jones Stands on Steps of the Capitol Opposing the Anti-Charter School Bill
Jul 16
AB 84 Charter Schools Press Conference
Jul 15
Leader Jones Demands Accountability on Dangerous Sexually Violent Predator Program

Jun 17
2025
$8-a-gallon gas? Senate Minority Leader Brian W. Jones requests audit of gas price hikes
Jun 9
2025
Nixed bill could have prevented LA unrest, California minority leader says
Jun 8
2025
California lawmaker warns Menendez brothers' case is driving return of bill to release thousands of killers
Jun 3
2025
Ramona nonprofit, resident recognized with Senate District 40 awards