Photo courtesy of Senate Republican Caucus

Today Senator Suzette Martinez Valladares (R-Santa Clarita) called on the Governor and legislative leaders to restore dangerous funding cuts that will hurt California’s most vulnerable. Senator Valladares joined with Assemblyman Jeff Gonzalez (R-Indio), Assemblyman James Gallagher (R-East Nicolas), Assemblyman David Tangipa (R-Fresno), disability advocates, In Home Support Services (IHSS) caregivers and families to call on our state leaders to provide the support that this community needs and deserves.

“I’ve seen up close what it means to fight for services, to navigate broken systems, and to advocate fiercely for your loved ones. So when I tell you I understand the struggles, I truly do,” said Senator Valladares. “This isn’t some abstract policy debate. This is about a child not getting speech therapy, a working parent losing a caregiver, a young adult losing the ability to live independently. We must do better.”

The Governor and legislative leaders in the majority party are once again calling for balancing the budget on the backs of the intellectual and developmentally disabled. The cuts would reduce overtime, travel compensation for caregivers, and restrict care for thousands of seniors, disabled individuals and families.

“These programs are a lifeline for thousands of families. And the idea that we’d solve a budget deficit by cutting from the most vulnerable is just cowardly. California doesn’t have a money problem, we have a priorities problem,” concluded Sen Valladares.

Capitol

Valencia Office

25060 West Ave Stanford, Suite 130 Valencia, CA 91355 Phone: (661) 257-1204

Lancaster Office

42505 10th St West Suite 109 Lancaster, CA 93534 Phone: (661) 729-6232

Adelanto Office

11600 Air Expressway Adelanto, CA 92301 Phone: (760) 246-2911

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

<d

Home

About Suzette Biography Committees District Map

Biography

Committees

District Map

Legislation My Legislation Bill Search

My Legislation

Bill Search

Newsroom Releases / Opinions Media Kit

Releases / Opinions

Media Kit

Contact Me Email the Senator My Offices

Email the Senator

My Offices

Senator Valladares Joins Legislators and Advocates to Call on Governor and Leg Leaders to Restore Dangerous Cuts for Most Vulnerable

Breadcrumb