Senator Brian W. Jones (R-Santee) announced today introducing three bills immediately upon being sworn into office yesterday.

“Two of the biggest issues California is facing are skyrocketing homelessness and soaring unaffordable gas prices. On the campaign trail, I promised voters that I would tackle both issues on day one of my next Senate term. Yesterday, I followed through on my promises and introduced three bills: one to compassionately clear encampments and two to lower gas prices $1 per gallon by suspending the state’s gas taxes and fees.”

Jones’s Senate Bill 31 will compassionately clear encampments by:

Prohibiting encampments near the sensitive community areas of schools, parks, libraries, and day care centers. This will help protect our most vulnerable population: our children;

Requiring a 72-hour warning before an encampment sweep. This will give homeless individuals a chance to find alternatives and services before their encampment is cleared; and

Requiring enforcement officers to provide information about sleeping alternatives, homeless and mental health services, and/or homeless shelters in the area. This will help connect homeless individuals to desperately needed services as encampments are compassionately cleared.

“We cannot simply continue allowing people to live in our parks and libraries or in front of schools and day care centers,” stated Senator Brian W. Jones. “It’s inhumane and unhealthy for the homeless individuals, and it’s unfair and often dangerous for the neighbors, families, and children in these sensitive areas. Our measure will help end the public camping in these areas while also compassionately assisting the homeless to get treatment for their physical and mental health needs and find a more suitable place to stay.”

Jones’s Senate Bill 32 and Special Session Senate Billx1 1 suspend the state’s gas taxes and fees to lower gas prices by $1 per gallon for one year. While Governor Newsom declared a Special Session to raise gas taxes in the midst of an economic downtown, Jones introduced a Special Session bill (SBx1 1) to suspend gas taxes. In addition to his Special Session bill, Jones introduced an identical bill to suspend gas taxes (SB 32) in the 2023-2024 Regular Session. This will bring immediate relief to Californians at the pump when many are struggling to afford high gas prices.

“Suspending the gas tax has bipartisan support across the country. Several Democrat and Republican states have suspended their gas tax. Earlier this year, President Biden announced his support for states to suspend their gas tax. California is behind the nation in bringing relief to overly taxed Californians by suspending our gas tax. Governor Newsom’s Special Session to raise gas taxes is tone-deaf to Californians’ economic struggles. Now is not the time to be experimenting with an unproven tax increase scheme that puts politics before people. My measures will bring immediate relief at the pump.”

SB 31 is principal coauthored by Senator Shannon Grove (R-Bakersfield) and coauthored by Senators Brian Dahle (R-Bieber), Roger Niello (R-Fair Oaks), Janet Nguyen (R-Huntington Beach), Rosilicie Ochoa Bogh (R-Yucaipa), Kelly Seyarto (R-Murrieta), and Scott Wilk (R-Santa Clarita). SB 32 and SBx1 1 are coauthored by the entire California State Senate Republican Caucus. Click here for the SB 31 fact sheet, here for the SB 32 fact sheet, and here for the SBX1 1 fact sheet. All three measures are in the Senate Rules Committee awaiting assignment to a policy committee for a hearing.

Capitol Office

1021 O Street, Room 7640 Sacramento, CA 95814 Phone: (916) 651-4040 Fax: (916) 651-4940

Scripps Ranch Office

10650 Treena Street #110 San Diego, CA 92131 Phone: (858) 547-3818

Escondido Office

720 N. Broadway, Suite 110 Escondido, CA 92025 Phone: (760) 796-4655

facebook Facebook

twitter Twitter

instagram Instagram

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

Home

About Brian Biography

Biography

Legislation My Legislation Committees Bill Search

My Legislation

Committees

Bill Search

Newsroom Releases/Editorials In The News Audio/Video Are You Kidding Me? Photos Media Kit

Releases/Editorials

In The News

Audio/Video

Are You Kidding Me?

Photos

Media Kit

Contact Me Certificate Request District Internship Program District Map E-mail the Senator Legislative Proposal My Offices Subscribe to the Mailing List

Certificate Request

District Internship Program

District Map

E-mail the Senator

Legislative Proposal

My Offices

Subscribe to the Mailing List

Senator Brian Jones introduces bills to lower gas prices and tackle homelessness on day one of his new Senate term

More News

ICYMI

View All

Breadcrumb

Aug 6
California Republicans’ Growing Impact on Social Media
Jul 16
Leader Jones Stands on Steps of the Capitol Opposing the Anti-Charter School Bill
Jul 16
AB 84 Charter Schools Press Conference
Jul 15
Leader Jones Demands Accountability on Dangerous Sexually Violent Predator Program

Jun 17
2025
$8-a-gallon gas? Senate Minority Leader Brian W. Jones requests audit of gas price hikes
Jun 9
2025
Nixed bill could have prevented LA unrest, California minority leader says
Jun 8
2025
California lawmaker warns Menendez brothers' case is driving return of bill to release thousands of killers
Jun 3
2025
Ramona nonprofit, resident recognized with Senate District 40 awards