This week, Senator Steven Choi ( R- Irvine ), the Vice Chair of Senate Elections and Constitutional Amendments Committee, presented three bills aimed at eliminating voter fraud and strengthening election integrity in California. Democrat members of the committee refused to call a vote on the bills.

“Californians deserve secure and transparent elections they trust, but my Democrat colleagues refuse to even vote on bills that would promote election integrity,” said Senator Choi . “Our whole voting system was overturned during the pandemic and the fate of democracy rests in the hands of this new process.”

The bills were heard on April 1 in Senate Elections and Constitutional Amendments committee. Senator Choi’s bills aimed to restore local control over voter identification decisions, improve efficiency and expediency of vote tabulation, and ensure that every ballot was in the hands of elections officials by Election Day.

“We must remain unwavering in our commitment to ensuring that every ballot is legitimate, every voter is properly identified, and our state’s ballot counting process is fast and efficient,” Sen. Choi continued. “This is not just about reforming the system, it is about protecting the foundation of the democratic process.”

The bills, SB 405 , SB 406 , and SB 407 are held in the Senate Elections and Constitutional Amendments Committee and will not be allowed to progress further in the legislative processes.

Capitol

District

3200 El Camino Real, Suite 230 Irvine, CA 92602 Phone: (714) 544-1035

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

<d

Home

About Dr. Choi Biography Committees

Biography

Committees

Legislation

Newsroom Releases / Opinions Important Updates Audio / Video Photo Gallery

Releases / Opinions

Important Updates

Audio / Video

Photo Gallery

Contact Me District Internship Program District Map Email the Senator My Offices

District Internship Program

District Map

Email the Senator

My Offices

Senate Election Committee Kills Key Election Integrity Bills

Breadcrumb