Senator Shannon Grove ( R-Bakersfield ) is pleased to announce her bipartisan legislation, Senate Bill 1043, the Accountability in Children’s Treatment (ACT) measure, has unanimously passed out of the Assembly Human Services Committee yesterday. Celebrity advocate Paris Hilton and her nonprofit organization 11:11 Media Impact is sponsoring the measure.

The act proposes greater transparency for children and young adults who are living in facilities licensed by the California Department of Social Services (CDSS), by requiring information related to the use of restraints and seclusion rooms to be accessible to the public.

Yesterday, amendments were added to further strengthen the bill and offer additional layers of accountability, transparency and a pathway for youth voices to be heard. These amendments will require CDSS to investigate each time a restraint or seclusion room is used at a Short-Term Residential Therapeutic Program (STRTP). It will also require The Office of the Foster Care Ombudsperson to act as an advocate for children restrained or secluded in these facilities by amplifying their voice and collecting their statement during the reporting process. Furthermore, the Department of Social Services will be required to publish the data reported by STRTP’s on their use of restraints or seclusion rooms every six months.

“Accountability and transparency regarding the care of our most vulnerable children is an absolute must in the state of California,” said Senator Shannon Grove. “Our children deserve the highest level of care and we must ensure they receive it. I am honored to stand with Paris Hilton, a survivor of the troubled teen industry, to advocate and support children in treatment facilities across our state.

"I am incredibly proud to support SB 1043, the Accountability in Children’s Treatment measure,” said celebrity advocate Paris Hilton. “As someone who has personally experienced the devastating impact of the troubled teen industry, I know firsthand the importance of transparency and accountability in treatment facilities. This bill is a significant step towards ensuring that no child in California endures the trauma of being restrained or secluded without proper oversight and public awareness. Thank you Senator Shannon Grove, Chair Assemblyman Alex Lee and members of the Assembly Human Services Committee for your dedication to protecting children in California’s care!"

Background on out-of-state facilities and why SB 1043 is needed:

Previously, California sent children to out-of-state facilities with the goal of getting them the treatment they urgently needed. Tragically, numerous reports and incidents were brought to light of these vulnerable children being abused at these facilities.

In response to the out-of-state abuses, AB 808 (Stone, 2021) was introduced to eliminate the placement of foster youth in out-of-state treatment facilities and created the Child’s Continuum Pilot Program to develop care for foster youth. This measure was passed in a budget bill, AB 153, which decertified out-of-state facilities and required all California youth to return by January 1, 2023. Governor Newsom allocated $8 million to immediately bring home the remaining youth from these treatment facilities and utilize the funding to recruit foster families and bolster health and behavioral support services. Currently, Short Term Residential Therapeutic Programs (STRTPs) serve as an alternative for out-of-state treatment facilities. Although these facilities hold a higher standard of care, the use of seclusion rooms and restraints on minors still occur which require reporting to CDSS. However, this information is not currently accessible to the public.

Capitol Office

1021 O Street, Room 7150 Sacramento, CA 95814 Phone: (916) 651-4012 Fax: (916) 651-4916

Bakersfield Office

5701 Truxtun Ave., Suite 150 Bakersfield, CA 93309 Phone: (661) 323-0443 Fax: (661) 323-0446

Fresno Office

567 W. Shaw Ave., Suite A-3 Fresno, CA 93704 Phone:  559-243-8580

facebook Facebook

twitter Twitter

instagram Instagram

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

Home

About Shannon Biography Committees 12th Senate District Map

Biography

Committees

12th Senate District Map

Legislation My Legislation Bill Search Submit a Legislative Proposal

My Legislation

Bill Search

Submit a Legislative Proposal

Newsroom Releases / Editorials Photos

Releases / Editorials

Photos

Resources California Senate Fellows Program Coronavirus Information Education Register to Vote Unclaimed Property Veteran Resources

California Senate Fellows Program

Coronavirus Information

Education

Register to Vote

Unclaimed Property

Veteran Resources

Contact me My Offices E-mail the Senator Subscribe

My Offices

E-mail the Senator

Subscribe

Senator Shannon Grove announces passage of children’s protection measure

More News

View All

Breadcrumb

Aug 29
Senator Shannon Grove Celebrates Advancement of Key Bills for Special Education and Rural Healthcare, Expresses Disappointment Over Scrapping of Leno’s Law
Aug 27
VIDEO: Celebrity advocate Paris Hilton calls for passage of child protection measure ahead of key vote
Aug 25
Senator Shannon Grove and Assemblyman David Tangipa  Honor Retired NFL Quarterback, Derek Carr
Aug 21
Senator Shannon Grove opposes Democrats' attempt to override the will of California voters