Senator Marie Alvarado-Gil (D-Jackson) proudly announces the recipients of the 2024 Nonprofit of the Year Honoree Awards for Stanislaus County. This year’s honorees are recognized for their unwavering commitment to addressing critical issues and improving the lives of residents throughout the region.

Stanislaus Homeless Advocacy and Resource Enterprise (SHARE) has been selected as a 2024 Nonprofit of the Year Honoree. Founded in 2020 by Frank Ploof and Steven Finch, SHARE is dedicated to tackling housing access and affordability. Their innovative model, inspired by Finch's experience with the Court Appointed Special Advocates (CASA) program, utilizes highly trained advocates to meet the diverse needs of unhoused individuals. In 2023, SHARE served over 400 clients, more than doubling their impact from the previous two years combined. SHARE collaborates with organizations such as the Modesto Police Department’s Community Health and Assistance Team (CHAT), Downtown Streets Team (DST), Turning Point, and Stanislaus County CARE, providing comprehensive support from securing temporary housing to navigating complex healthcare systems.

Modesto Downtown Streets Team (DST) is another recipient of the 2024 Nonprofit of the Year award. DST builds teams that restore dignity, inspire hope, and provide pathways to recovery from homelessness. The organization emphasizes creating an inclusive and supportive workplace environment, offering case management, system navigation, and employment placement services. Operating in 20 communities across Northern and Central California, DST engages in community beautification and clean-up projects, working to undo negative perceptions of homelessness and demonstrating their commitment to positive change.

Center for Human Services (CHS) - Ceres Partnership is also honored as a 2024 Nonprofit of the Year. CHS impacts the community by changing lives and building futures through comprehensive programs that support youth and families. Serving over 10,000 children, individuals, and families annually, CHS provides mental health services, youth navigation centers, school-based services, substance use treatment, family resource centers, and workforce development. CHS provides basic human needs for the community with a caring and supportive approach.

Lastly, Central Valley Community Resources in Riverbank has also been recognized as a 2024 Nonprofit of the Year Honoree for their efforts in coordinating services and programs to serve the diverse community, empowering individuals to become self-sufficient.

"I am immensely proud to recognize these outstanding organizations for their tireless work and dedication," said Senator Marie Alvarado-Gil . "Their innovative approaches and commitment to service are making a profound difference in the lives of Stanislaus County residents."

Capitol

Modesto

1020 15th Street, Ste 21 Modesto, CA 95354 Phone: (209) 576-6001

El Dorado Hills

4364 Town Center Blvd, Suite 313 El Dorado Hills, CA 95762 Phone: (916) 933-8680

Privacy Policy

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

<d

Home

About Marie Biography District Map

Biography

District Map

Legislation Bill Search

Bill Search

Newsroom Press Releases Op-Eds

Press Releases

Op-Eds

Contact Me District Offices Email the Senator Scheduling Requests State Resources Subscribe

District Offices

Email the Senator

Scheduling Requests

State Resources

Subscribe

Senator Marie Alvarado-Gil Honors Stanislaus County Nonprofit Of The Year Honorees

Breadcrumb