Today, Senator Tony Strickland (R-Huntington Beach) joined Assemblymember Tri Ta (R-Westminster) and nearly 200 Vietnamese-American community leaders and other elected officials who represent the Vietnamese community to commemorate the 50th anniversary of the Fall of Saigon.

Senator Strickland represents the 36th Senate District, which covers portions of Orange and Los Angeles counties, including the Little Saigon area of northwestern Orange County. Senator Strickland released the following statement:

“The Fall of Saigon took place 50 years ago today – a dark day in history for Vietnam as hundreds of Vietnamese citizens fled their country due to fear of persecution by the newly unified communist government.

“Black April is a day of reflection and remembrance for the Vietnamese-American refugees who escaped the oppression of communism and aspired for a life of freedom and independence in the United States.

“I am proud to represent a vibrant Vietnamese American community known as Little Saigon. Many of those who call Little Saigon home are my friends, neighbors and small business owners who contribute to California’s economy and are the fabric of our society.

“Thank you for your contributions enriching California’s history. Your stories, sacrifices, and resiliency are to be commended.

“We also must never forget the brave soldiers who fought for freedom for so many, because freedom is never FREE.”

Senator Strickland’s father, U.S. Army First Sergeant Donald Strickland, served during the Vietnam War. For his valor and bravery during the Tet Offensive, the senator’s father received the Bronze Star Medal, which is the military’s fourth highest decoration for valor.

Capitol:

District Office:

301 Main Street, Suite 212 Huntington Beach, CA 92648 (714) 374-4000

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

<d

Home

About Tony Biography Committees

Biography

Committees

Newsroom Releases / Opinions Newsletters Audio / Video Photos

Releases / Opinions

Newsletters

Audio / Video

Photos

Contact Me District Map My Offices Scheduling Requests

District Map

My Offices

Scheduling Requests

Senator Strickland commemorates 50th anniversary of the Fall of Saigon

Breadcrumb