Sacramento – Today, the Senate Public Safety Committee voted down State Senator Brian Jones’ (R-Santee) Senate Bill 979, a measure to increase the penalties on persons who steal packages from the porch or entryway of someone’s home.

"Some of the most vulnerable in our community, such as seniors and disabled individuals, rely on home delivery of goods for survival. During the COVID-19 crisis, vulnerable individuals unable to leave their home rely on package delivery for essential items such as medication and food,” stated Senator Jones.  "Unfortunately, an increase in package delivery has also led to an increase in package theft from outside Californians’ homes. This 'porch piracy' epidemic is serious and needs to be addressed by our criminal justice system. Current law is weak on the punishment of this type of theft but this bill would have increased the consequences significantly," Jones notes.

Current law provides that a theft of a package from the porch or entryway of someone's home is merely a misdemeanor, no matter how many repeat convictions the perpetrator may have on their record.  SB 979 would have allowed prosecutors to charge the perpetrator ("porch pirate") with a misdemeanor or with a felony in the third or subsequent conviction during a 36-month period.

While the majority-party members of the Senate Public Safety Committee acknowledged the problem of increased porch piracy and the need to address it in California, they never-the-less voted down SB 979.

"Some of these so-called 'porch pirates' are habitual offenders who keep dodging real punishment for their actions because thefts from outside a home are treated differently under current law than burglaries committed inside a home," continued Jones.  “California often leads the nation in policy, and this needs to be one of those times. While the committee agreed porch piracy is a problem in the state, unfortunately, the committee did not agree that these offenders deserve a punishment that’s fit for their crime."

SB 979 was defeated in Senate Public Safety on a 2-5 party line vote with Republican Senators John Moorlach (R-Costa Mesa) and Mike Morrell (R-Rancho Cucamonga) supporting the measure, while Democrat Senators Nancy Skinner (D-Berkeley), Steven Bradford (D-Gardena), Hannah-Beth Jackson (D-Santa Barbara), Holly Mitchell (D-Los Angeles), and Scott Weiner (D-San Francisco) voted against it.

Capitol Office

1021 O Street, Room 7640 Sacramento, CA 95814 Phone: (916) 651-4040 Fax: (916) 651-4940

Scripps Ranch Office

10650 Treena Street #110 San Diego, CA 92131 Phone: (858) 547-3818

Escondido Office

720 N. Broadway, Suite 110 Escondido, CA 92025 Phone: (760) 796-4655

facebook Facebook

twitter Twitter

instagram Instagram

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

Home

About Brian Biography

Biography

Legislation My Legislation Committees Bill Search

My Legislation

Committees

Bill Search

Newsroom Releases/Editorials In The News Audio/Video Are You Kidding Me? Photos Media Kit

Releases/Editorials

In The News

Audio/Video

Are You Kidding Me?

Photos

Media Kit

Contact Me Certificate Request District Internship Program District Map E-mail the Senator Legislative Proposal My Offices Subscribe to the Mailing List

Certificate Request

District Internship Program

District Map

E-mail the Senator

Legislative Proposal

My Offices

Subscribe to the Mailing List

Senate Public Safety Committee Kills Jones' Porch Piracy Solution

More News

ICYMI

View All

Breadcrumb

Aug 6
California Republicans’ Growing Impact on Social Media
Jul 16
Leader Jones Stands on Steps of the Capitol Opposing the Anti-Charter School Bill
Jul 16
AB 84 Charter Schools Press Conference
Jul 15
Leader Jones Demands Accountability on Dangerous Sexually Violent Predator Program

Jun 17
2025
$8-a-gallon gas? Senate Minority Leader Brian W. Jones requests audit of gas price hikes
Jun 9
2025
Nixed bill could have prevented LA unrest, California minority leader says
Jun 8
2025
California lawmaker warns Menendez brothers' case is driving return of bill to release thousands of killers
Jun 3
2025
Ramona nonprofit, resident recognized with Senate District 40 awards