Click here to watch Senator Strickland's full remarks.

SACRAMENTO, Calif. – In response to a resolution introduced by Senate Democrats claiming that the Los Angeles riots in June 2025 were peaceful, Senator Tony Strickland (R-Huntington Beach ) offered amendments substituting the current language of Senate Joint Resolution 9 and identifying those riots as dangerous and violent. His amendments replaced the Democrats’ misleading language with a call to support House Resolution 516, authored by California Representative Young Kim. HR 516 received bipartisan support, including Minority Representatives Jim Costa of Fresno and Adam Gray of Merced. Click here to view Senate Democrats’ vote to block Senator Strickland’s proposed amendments.

Senator Strickland released the following statement:

“President Trump’s swift and decisive actions undoubtedly saved countless lives. By sending in reinforcements on June 6, activating the California National Guard, and deploying 2,000 troops, he protected the people of Los Angeles and provided critical support to the Los Angeles Police Department. The images broadcast on TV were by no means peaceful and showed a situation spiraling out of control.

“Even the Los Angeles Police Chief acknowledged in media reports that his officers were ‘overwhelmed’ by the scale of unrest. I’m disappointed that Senate Democrats repeatedly tried to pull the wool over the public eyes by lying about the reality of what truly took place and claimed that these dangerous riots were peaceful protests.”

Capitol:

District Office:

301 Main Street, Suite 212 Huntington Beach, CA 92648 (714) 374-4000

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

<d

Home

About Tony Biography Committees

Biography

Committees

Newsroom Releases / Opinions Newsletters Audio / Video Photos

Releases / Opinions

Newsletters

Audio / Video

Photos

Contact Me District Map My Offices Scheduling Requests

District Map

My Offices

Scheduling Requests

Senator Strickland: Democrats advocate for lawlessness, violence, and riots

Breadcrumb