El Cajon – Senator Brian Jones (R-Santee) yesterday met with and presented official Senate Certificates of Recognition to three local brothers who all earned their National Eagle Scout awards on the same day last month.

“These three young men are an inspiration to our community and positive sign that our future is in good hands,” stated Senator Brian Jones.  “Jacob, Joshua and Noah’s spirit of public service is commendable and appreciated by all.  We are grateful to the Epperson family, their friends and neighbors who are helping guide these three young men so well.”

Jacob, Joshua and Noah Epperson of La Mesa all received their National Eagle Scout designation on the same day - October 24, a rare occurrence in the Scouting World.  The rank of National Eagle Scout is the highest and most prestigious award in the Boy Scouts of America (BSA) organization and is achieved by only 4% of Boy Scouts.

One of the final requirements to earn the Eagle Scout rank is completion of a community project.  Jacob’s project added trail markers and distances at Hillside Park in El Cajon; Joshua’s was to install a concrete pad around an existing flagpole at the family’s house of worship, The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints in La Mesa; and Noah’s was installing a bulletin board kiosk at MacArthur Park in La Mesa.

The secret to the Epperson boys’ success was camaraderie, not competitiveness.

By supporting each other on three separate community projects, the Epperson brothers -- Jacob, 16, Joshua, 15 and Noah, 13 -- were able to complete the community projects they needed to become Eagle Scouts.

The boys are sons of Troop 370 Scoutmaster Dirk Epperson (also an Eagle Scout since 1994). Earlier this year, they decided to go through the program’s Boards of Review together. Jacob started his project in February and was on track to complete his Eagle requirements quickly, but waited until his younger brothers could join him for the honors.

“You don’t hear about three brothers getting Eagles the same day so it was a cool experience for that,” Jacob said. “It was fun helping each other during the process to be able to go through it together.”

The boys said they were also assisted by about 30 other people, including their parents, relatives, neighbors, other Scouts and friends. The three projects combined for over 400 hours of benefit to the community.

“I kind of feel relieved and proud to be able to accomplish something so useful,” Noah said.

Even their little sister, 11-year-old Chloe, was part of the mix, picking up trash, bringing water to thirsty workers and providing babysitting duties to helpers with children.

“All four of them always have been each other’s best friends,” said their mother, Megan Epperson. “They all look out for each other. They all take care of each other. They are a support system for each other that has been built under the same roof. It’s a very encouraging and supportive relationship they have together.”

The three brothers will be awarded the Eagle Scout rank at a Court of Honor scheduled for Monday, Dec. 2, at their church -- with the flag flying on its new flagpole.

“I’m really proud whenever I walk over there and raise the flag now,” Joshua said.

Capitol Office

1021 O Street, Room 7640 Sacramento, CA 95814 Phone: (916) 651-4040 Fax: (916) 651-4940

Scripps Ranch Office

10650 Treena Street #110 San Diego, CA 92131 Phone: (858) 547-3818

Escondido Office

720 N. Broadway, Suite 110 Escondido, CA 92025 Phone: (760) 796-4655

facebook Facebook

twitter Twitter

instagram Instagram

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

Pictured above with Senator Brian Jones are Jacob, Noah and Joshua Epperson during a ceremony in Senator Jones’ El Cajon District office.

Home

About Brian Biography

Biography

Legislation My Legislation Committees Bill Search

My Legislation

Committees

Bill Search

Newsroom Releases/Editorials In The News Audio/Video Are You Kidding Me? Photos Media Kit

Releases/Editorials

In The News

Audio/Video

Are You Kidding Me?

Photos

Media Kit

Contact Me Certificate Request District Internship Program District Map E-mail the Senator Legislative Proposal My Offices Subscribe to the Mailing List

Certificate Request

District Internship Program

District Map

E-mail the Senator

Legislative Proposal

My Offices

Subscribe to the Mailing List

Senator Jones Honors Three Brothers Who Earned National Eagle Scout Awards

More News

ICYMI

View All

Breadcrumb

Aug 6
California Republicans’ Growing Impact on Social Media
Jul 16
Leader Jones Stands on Steps of the Capitol Opposing the Anti-Charter School Bill
Jul 16
AB 84 Charter Schools Press Conference
Jul 15
Leader Jones Demands Accountability on Dangerous Sexually Violent Predator Program

Jun 17
2025
$8-a-gallon gas? Senate Minority Leader Brian W. Jones requests audit of gas price hikes
Jun 9
2025
Nixed bill could have prevented LA unrest, California minority leader says
Jun 8
2025
California lawmaker warns Menendez brothers' case is driving return of bill to release thousands of killers
Jun 3
2025
Ramona nonprofit, resident recognized with Senate District 40 awards