Senator Rosilicie Ochoa Bogh (R-Yucaipa) today announced the availability of applications for the 2023-2024 California Senate Fellows program.

The program allows college graduates to become full-time Senate staff members at the California State Capitol in Sacramento for 11 months beginning in October 2023. Fellows are assigned to a Senator's personal office or committee staff and participate in academic seminars with legislators, staff, journalists, and state government officials. The California Senate and the Center for California Studies at California State University, Sacramento, jointly operate the fellowship program.

Fellows are paid a monthly salary plus health, vision, and dental benefits. They earn six units of graduate credit from California State University, Sacramento, for the program's academic portion.

"Being a Senate Fellow provides an excellent opportunity to gain first-hand knowledge of the legislative process," said Senator Ochoa Bogh. "The experience and training are valuable assets whether your career goals are in the public or private sector. I highly recommend this program to young adults looking to make a difference and interested in learning first-hand about the State Capitol."

Former Senate Fellows include current members of Congress, judges, former members of the Legislature, and numerous other elected officials and community leaders.

Senate Fellows experience the broad range of activities conducted in Senate offices. Responsibilities include researching public policy issues, helping develop legislative proposals, analyzing and staffing legislation, assisting with constituent inquiries and casework, participating in meetings as the Senator's representative, writing press releases and speeches, and performing other delegated tasks. A seven-week orientation at the beginning of the program provides background on state government, the legislative process, and significant policy issues.

Anyone who will be at least 20 years of age and a graduate of a four-year college or university by September 1, 2023, is eligible to apply. Individuals with advanced degrees and those in mid-career are also encouraged to apply. There is no preferred major.

For more information, brochures can be requested online, or to apply, visit the Capitol Fellows website at https://www.csus.edu/center/center-california-studies/capital-fellows/ .

The deadline for submitting applications is Monday, February 6, 2023, by 5:00 p.m. PST. Eighteen (18) Senate Fellows will be selected in May after an initial screening of applications and a subsequent panel interview of the finalists.

Capitol Office

1021 O Street, Room 7220 Sacramento, CA 95814 Phone: (916) 651-4019 Fax: (916) 651-4919

Redlands Office

1758 Orange Tree Lane, Suite B Redlands, CA 92374 Phone: (909) 335-0271 Fax: (909) 335-0282

facebook Facebook

twitter Twitter

instagram Instagram

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

Home

About Rosilicie My Legislation Current Legislation Legislative Accomplishments 2024 Legislative Accomplishments 2023 Legislative Accomplishments 2022-21 Bill Search Committees Biography

My Legislation Current Legislation Legislative Accomplishments 2024 Legislative Accomplishments 2023 Legislative Accomplishments 2022-21 Bill Search

Current Legislation

Legislative Accomplishments 2024

Legislative Accomplishments 2023

Legislative Accomplishments 2022-21

Bill Search

Committees

Biography

District District Map Virtual Insurance Town Hall Virtual PSPS Town Hall Wildfire Resources

District Map

Virtual Insurance Town Hall

Virtual PSPS Town Hall

Wildfire Resources

Newsroom Releases/Editorials

Releases/Editorials

Contact Me Constituent Services E-mail the Senator Look Ahead Mobile Office Hours My Offices State Agencies Subscribe

Constituent Services

E-mail the Senator

Look Ahead

Mobile Office Hours

My Offices

State Agencies

Subscribe

Senator Ochoa Bogh Encourages College Graduates to Apply to Senate Fellows Program﻿

Breadcrumb