SACRAMENTO - Senate Republican Leader Shannon Grove (R-Bakersfield) issued the following statement after the United States Department of Transportation released a letter today to the California High-Speed Rail Authority announcing that it will terminate nearly $1 billion in funding for the boondoggle project.

On Wednesday, the online media website California Globe posted an op-ed written by Leader Grove where she stated, “The high-speed rail project has run off its rails and become a massive waste of taxpayer dollars.” Read the full op-ed here. https://californiaglobe.com/governor/pump-the-brakes-on-the-bullet-train/

“Today the federal government acknowledged what everyone who isn’t being paid by the authority already knows; California’s high-speed rail project is dead. The only question that remains is --- how many more taxpayer dollars are going to be wasted chasing this impractical dream?

“Right now, the federal government has put California on notice that we aren’t getting the nearly $1 billion that the High-Speed Rail Authority says it needs to complete the Merced to Bakersfield line. When voters were asked to consider this project, it looked a lot different. Now, the project will take longer, will cost more money, and will no longer travel to its original destination. This is not the project voters approved. It is time for California to cancel this big rail fail,” said Senate Republican Leader Shannon Grove.

Capitol Office

1021 O Street, Room 7150 Sacramento, CA 95814 Phone: (916) 651-4012 Fax: (916) 651-4916

Bakersfield Office

5701 Truxtun Ave., Suite 150 Bakersfield, CA 93309 Phone: (661) 323-0443 Fax: (661) 323-0446

Fresno Office

567 W. Shaw Ave., Suite A-3 Fresno, CA 93704 Phone:  559-243-8580

facebook Facebook

twitter Twitter

instagram Instagram

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

Home

About Shannon Biography Committees 12th Senate District Map

Biography

Committees

12th Senate District Map

Legislation My Legislation Bill Search Submit a Legislative Proposal

My Legislation

Bill Search

Submit a Legislative Proposal

Newsroom Releases / Editorials Photos

Releases / Editorials

Photos

Resources California Senate Fellows Program Coronavirus Information Education Register to Vote Unclaimed Property Veteran Resources

California Senate Fellows Program

Coronavirus Information

Education

Register to Vote

Unclaimed Property

Veteran Resources

Contact me My Offices E-mail the Senator Subscribe

My Offices

E-mail the Senator

Subscribe

Senate Republican Leader Grove Responds to the Fate of the Doomed High-Speed Rail

More News

View All

Breadcrumb

Aug 29
Senator Shannon Grove Celebrates Advancement of Key Bills for Special Education and Rural Healthcare, Expresses Disappointment Over Scrapping of Leno’s Law
Aug 27
VIDEO: Celebrity advocate Paris Hilton calls for passage of child protection measure ahead of key vote
Aug 25
Senator Shannon Grove and Assemblyman David Tangipa  Honor Retired NFL Quarterback, Derek Carr
Aug 21
Senator Shannon Grove opposes Democrats' attempt to override the will of California voters