Senator Rosilicie Ochoa Bogh (R-Yucaipa) has introduced Senate Bill 1113 to help enrich the lives of children with disabilities by advancing the opportunities to learn in general educational settings alongside peers without disabilities.

“There is nothing more valuable than an education. Providing every child a higher quality education in the best environment will make all the difference in their lives and our future as a great nation,” said Senator Ochoa Bogh. “That is why it is important to ensure all children, especially those with disabilities, have the opportunity to thrive in educational settings that promote inclusion.”

SB 1113 will provide a clear definition of inclusionary practices, in order to have a more uniform understanding of overall guidance on inclusion. This bill will promote the inclusion of students with disabilities in general education classrooms by addressing and implementing inclusionary practices through an updated guidebook, a mandated review for the consideration of inclusionary methods in textbooks, funding technical assistance providers, a study to determine appropriate staffing numbers to achieve best practices and requiring training in inclusive practices for new school administrators.

“California’s students with disabilities still have to struggle in many schools to be included with their typically developing peers in general education classes,” said Adam Stein, representative of SELPA Administrators of California. “In fact, many are excluded unnecessarily. A solid body of research shows that both students with disabilities and their non-disabled peers benefit from inclusion in general education, and students who are included show a lower rate of dropout, suspension, failure in employment, and other risk factors. SB 1113 will provide some much-needed steps towards ensuring all students with disabilities get a chance at the same education all of their peers receive.”

In 2017–18, California had one of the lowest inclusion rates for students with disabilities in the country: 56 percent compared to a national average of 63.4 percent. The Federal Individuals with Disabilities Education Act (IDEA) and state law mandate that students are educated in the least restrictive environment. In practice, deciding what “least restrictive environment” is appropriate for a student with a disability is left up to the district and parent to determine. Parents are often unaware of how that is defined in the law, and many local education agencies continue to place students in more restrictive settings unnecessarily.

“All California students deserve an education worthy of their potential. For too long, this education has been out of reach for many of our students with disabilities,” Said Ochoa Bogh. “Allowing children to learn in the least restrictive environments is a vital component in student achievement. We must work to educate parents, teachers, and administrators about the value of allowing students with disabilities to learn alongside peers without disabilities and how that helps our most vulnerable students develop healthy relationships with their school and community setting them up for future success.”

Capitol Office

1021 O Street, Room 7220 Sacramento, CA 95814 Phone: (916) 651-4019 Fax: (916) 651-4919

Redlands Office

1758 Orange Tree Lane, Suite B Redlands, CA 92374 Phone: (909) 335-0271 Fax: (909) 335-0282

facebook Facebook

twitter Twitter

instagram Instagram

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

Home

About Rosilicie My Legislation Current Legislation Legislative Accomplishments 2024 Legislative Accomplishments 2023 Legislative Accomplishments 2022-21 Bill Search Committees Biography

My Legislation Current Legislation Legislative Accomplishments 2024 Legislative Accomplishments 2023 Legislative Accomplishments 2022-21 Bill Search

Current Legislation

Legislative Accomplishments 2024

Legislative Accomplishments 2023

Legislative Accomplishments 2022-21

Bill Search

Committees

Biography

District District Map Virtual Insurance Town Hall Virtual PSPS Town Hall Wildfire Resources

District Map

Virtual Insurance Town Hall

Virtual PSPS Town Hall

Wildfire Resources

Newsroom Releases/Editorials

Releases/Editorials

Contact Me Constituent Services E-mail the Senator Look Ahead Mobile Office Hours My Offices State Agencies Subscribe

Constituent Services

E-mail the Senator

Look Ahead

Mobile Office Hours

My Offices

State Agencies

Subscribe

Senator Ochoa Bogh Works to Strengthen Inclusion in Classrooms and Empower Students with Disabilities

Breadcrumb