Today, California Senate Republicans sent a formal veto request letter to Governor Newsom asking that he veto Senate Bill 961 . Authored by progressive San Francisco Senator Scott Wiener, SB 961 would mandate all new cars come equipped with speed monitors that would harass the driver through a v isual and audio signal each and every time the posted speed limit is exceeded by 10 miles per hour. Click HERE to read the veto request.

“The state’s traffic safety crisis will not be solved by government taking the wheel,” said Senator Roger Niello ( R-Fair Oaks ), vice chair of the Senate Committee on Transportation . “We should focus on increasing police presence in our communities and punishing drivers who violate our laws."

The original version of the measure, as described by its author, was meant to mandate all new cars autonomously reduce a vehicles speed when drivers exceed the posted limit by more than 10 miles per hour. While the current version has been watered down to an alert only, Senate Republicans say it is the first step toward incremental implementation of forced speed-reduction cars.

“Californians don’t need Big Brother telling them how to drive; we need solutions that respect personal responsibility and focus on meaningful safety improvements,” said Senate Minority Leader Brian W. Jones ( R-San Diego ). “Californians value their independence, individuality and freedom from control. If the governor too values those principles, he will veto this bill. Senate Republicans advocate for safe driving, but nobody wants a backseat driver screeching ‘You’re driving too fast!’”

“This is a major government intrusion into our private space,” said Senator Brian Dahle ( R-Bieber ) who also serves on the Senate Committee on Transportation . “There is no need for bureaucrats to monitor our every move or turn. This is an unnecessary and, frankly, creepy measure that puts the government in the driver’s seat and I’m hopeful that Governor Newsom will veto this bill.”

Senate Bill 961 is currently going through the legislative enrollment process before being presented to the governor. Once it reaches his desk, the governor will until September 30, 2024 to act on the bill before it automatically becomes law.

Capitol

Roseville

2200A Douglas Blvd, Ste 100 Roseville, CA 95661 Phone: (916) 772-0571 Fax: (916) 772-0589

Rancho Cordova

2729 Prospect Park Drive, Suite 130 Rancho Cordova, CA 95670 Phone: (916) 464-3980 Fax: (916) 464-3985

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

<d

Home

About Roger Biography Committees

Biography

Committees

Legislation Bill Search

Bill Search

Newsroom Press Releases District Messages In The News Audio / Video Photo Gallery

Press Releases

District Messages

In The News

Audio / Video

Photo Gallery

Contact Me Email the Senator My Offices District Map Subscribe

Email the Senator

My Offices

District Map

Subscribe

Senate Republicans urge veto of bill to authorize government-mandated speed trackers in all cars

Breadcrumb