Today, Senator Roger Niello ( R-Fair Oaks ) sent a letter to Governor Gavin Newsom to urge him to allocate sufficient funding for the implementation of Proposition 36, which was overwhelmingly supported by California voters. This measure aims to hold repeat criminals accountable while encouraging essential drug treatment and mental health services to individuals who would otherwise go to jail.

Senator Niello, joined by his legislative colleagues in both the Senate and Assembly, asserted that the success of Proposition 36 implementation depends on well-funded mental health and substance abuse services. The Legislative Analyst’s Office indicates that Proposition 36 will increase state criminal justice costs by less than one half of one percent of the state’s total general fund budget.

“We are at a pivotal moment to make impactful changes that will hold criminals accountable and protect our businesses and communities,” said Niello who serves as the Vice Chair of the Senate Budget and Fiscal Review Committee. “By allocating the necessary resources, we honor the will of the voters and take a significant step toward improving public safety by sending a clear message to criminals and drug offenders that we will not tolerate their criminal actions."

Greg Totten, Chief Executive Officer of the California District Attorneys Association, echoed the message, stating, “Our district attorneys witness daily the devastating toll of addiction and mental illness on our communities. Direct funding and enabling use of other funding sources for Prop. 36 are essential for reducing recidivism and ensuring public safety."

Governor Newsom must submit his budget proposal by January 10.

Capitol

Roseville

2200A Douglas Blvd, Ste 100 Roseville, CA 95661 Phone: (916) 772-0571 Fax: (916) 772-0589

Rancho Cordova

2729 Prospect Park Drive, Suite 130 Rancho Cordova, CA 95670 Phone: (916) 464-3980 Fax: (916) 464-3985

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

<d

Home

About Roger Biography Committees

Biography

Committees

Legislation Bill Search

Bill Search

Newsroom Press Releases District Messages In The News Audio / Video Photo Gallery

Press Releases

District Messages

In The News

Audio / Video

Photo Gallery

Contact Me Email the Senator My Offices District Map Subscribe

Email the Senator

My Offices

District Map

Subscribe

Senator Niello Urges Immediate Funding for Proposition 36 Implementation

Breadcrumb