Senator Grove with Senate District 12 Nonprofit of the Year recipients, Jason Geis and Sandi Jantz, with Portrait of a Warrior Gallery Kern County.

Today, Senator Shannon Grove ( R-Bakersfield ) proudly recognized Portrait of a Warrior Gallery Kern County as the 12 th Senate District Nonprofit of the Year. Each year, Senator Grove has the distinct honor to choose one nonprofit from her district to attend the California Association of Nonprofits annual luncheon and commend their incredible work with a Senate resolution.

Established with a noble mission, the Portrait of a Warrior Gallery Kern County stands as an incredible tribute to the post 9/11 warriors from Kern County who made the ultimate sacrifice for their country. Each portrait displayed within its walls serves as a lasting reminder of the courage, valor, and selflessness embodied by these fallen heroes.

"I am honored to recognize Portrait of a Warrior Gallery Kern County as my Nonprofit of the Year. This remarkable organization, founded by Jason Geis and Lili Marsh, stands as a powerful tribute to Kern County's fallen heroes,” remarked Senator Shannon Grove . “Their dedication to working with Gold Star Families and providing vital services to veterans and the community is truly inspiring. I am deeply grateful for their unwavering commitment to ensure our veterans’ legacies live on for generations to come.”

"On behalf of Portrait of a Warrior Gallery Kern County, we are deeply honored and grateful to Senator Shannon Grove for recognizing us as her Nonprofit of the Year," said Jason Geis, Executive Director and Co-Founder of the Portrait of a Warrior Gallery . " Senator Grove's unwavering support and dedication over the years has been invaluable, especially given her own service as a U.S. Army veteran. Thank you, Senator Grove, for your continued support and for helping us keep the memories of Kern County's fallen heroes alive."

About Portrait of a Warrior Gallery Kern County:

Portrait of a Warrior Gallery Kern County was founded by Jason Geiz and Lili Marsh on September 10, 2018, and works to keep the memories of Kern County’s fallen heroes vibrantly alive through portrait displays, biographies, education, and ever evolving exhibits. It also works directly with Gold Star Families to honor the lives of fallen service members through art and education and by assisting in sourcing services available to local veterans, their families and the local community.

Housed in a 5,000 square foot facility open at no cost to its visitors, Portrait of a Warrior Gallery Kern County displays its Fallen Warrior Gallery, which features portraits of the 27 post 9/11 warriors from Kern County who were killed in action or died of wounds suffered on the battlefield. The Hall of Honor showcases black and white pencil drawings of post 9/11 veterans who died due to other circumstances such as heart attack , car accident, training accident, or post-traumatic stress disorder complications. A display of 22 crosses brings awareness to veteran and active duty service member suicides. The Medal of Honor Wall includes the likeness of two Vietnam veteran Medal of Honor recipients from Kern County, Specialist Four Leonard L. Alvarado and Staff Sergeant Larry S. Pierce. Portrait of a Warrior Kern County also houses a Vietnam Memorial Room honoring veterans who died while serving in Vietnam, the Post 9/11 Team Room raises awareness around what living conditions were like in the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, and its Education Room serves as a unique gathering place for question and answer sessions with veterans for students on school field trips and for community members to hold meetings and classes.

Portrait of a Warrior Gallery Kern County works hand in hand with many organizations and nonprofits that provide a variety of veteran services including grief therapy, PTSD groups for healing and comradeship, canine and equine therapy groups that offer special programs for veterans, other social and sporting groups for comradeship and exercise.

Capitol Office

1021 O Street, Room 7150 Sacramento, CA 95814 Phone: (916) 651-4012 Fax: (916) 651-4916

Bakersfield Office

5701 Truxtun Ave., Suite 150 Bakersfield, CA 93309 Phone: (661) 323-0443 Fax: (661) 323-0446

Fresno Office

567 W. Shaw Ave., Suite A-3 Fresno, CA 93704 Phone:  559-243-8580

facebook Facebook

twitter Twitter

instagram Instagram

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

Home

About Shannon Biography Committees 12th Senate District Map

Biography

Committees

12th Senate District Map

Legislation My Legislation Bill Search Submit a Legislative Proposal

My Legislation

Bill Search

Submit a Legislative Proposal

Newsroom Releases / Editorials Photos

Releases / Editorials

Photos

Resources California Senate Fellows Program Coronavirus Information Education Register to Vote Unclaimed Property Veteran Resources

California Senate Fellows Program

Coronavirus Information

Education

Register to Vote

Unclaimed Property

Veteran Resources

Contact me My Offices E-mail the Senator Subscribe

My Offices

E-mail the Senator

Subscribe

Senator Grove recognizes Portrait of a Warrior Gallery  Kern County as Nonprofit of the Year

More News

View All

Breadcrumb

Aug 29
Senator Shannon Grove Celebrates Advancement of Key Bills for Special Education and Rural Healthcare, Expresses Disappointment Over Scrapping of Leno’s Law
Aug 27
VIDEO: Celebrity advocate Paris Hilton calls for passage of child protection measure ahead of key vote
Aug 25
Senator Shannon Grove and Assemblyman David Tangipa  Honor Retired NFL Quarterback, Derek Carr
Aug 21
Senator Shannon Grove opposes Democrats' attempt to override the will of California voters