Senator Tony Strickland (R-Huntington Beach), Vice Chair of the Senate Transportation Committee, criticized the latest supplemental project update from the California High Speed Rail Authority, which outlined a proposed rail line from Gilroy to Palmdale at a cost of $87 billion.

“Sacramento Democrats keep moving the goalpost on this failed project with decades of delays, rising costs, and endless raids on cap-and-trade revenues. The only thing high speed about this bullet train is the speed at which they waste our money. I have serious concerns about voter deception, as the latest Gilroy-to-Palmdale plan may not comply with the legal travel-time requirement outlined in Proposition 1A.

“As the saying goes, ‘The truth will set you free, but first it will make you miserable.’ The unfortunate truth is that this bullet train will never be built as voters approved in 2008. It’s time to be honest with Californians, cut our losses, and stop writing blank checks.”

In 2008, when voters approved Prop. 1A, it included the “ Safe, Reliable High-Speed Passenger Train Bond Act for the 21st Century ” provision of the California’s Streets and Highways Code. According to Section 2704.09 of the code, it sets strict maximum nonstop travel times for each corridor, including the San Francisco-Los Angeles corridor, at 2 hours, 40 minutes. Senate Transportation Vice Chair Strickland stated that if the CHSRA moves forward with its new project proposal, it must return to the voters for approval, as the updated plan does not meet the requirements that were originally approved.

Capitol:

District Office:

301 Main Street, Suite 212 Huntington Beach, CA 92648 (714) 374-4000

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

<d

Home

About Tony Biography Committees

Biography

Committees

Newsroom Releases / Opinions Newsletters Audio / Video Photos

Releases / Opinions

Newsletters

Audio / Video

Photos

Contact Me District Map My Offices Scheduling Requests

District Map

My Offices

Scheduling Requests

Senate Transportation Vice Chair Strickland: Sacramento’s $87 billion train off the rails, Proposition 1A promise broken

Breadcrumb