Senator Shannon Grove (R-Bakerfield) and Assemblyman David Tangipa (R-Fresno) welcomed Fresno St. Alum, Retired NFL Quarterback Derek Carr to the Senate Floor today, commemorating his remarkable career and his contributions to football, faith, and Central Valley Community. Carr was joined by his wife, Heather and their children for the special recognition.

“Derek Carr represents the very best of the Central Valley,” said Senator Shannon Grove. “He has carried the pride of Bakersfield, Fresno State, and the Valley with him throughout his football career. His deeply held faith in the Lord has guided his steps and led to a remarkable legacy on the field and through his community work. It was a privilege to honor him and his family on the Senate floor.”

“The Carr family has made an incredible impact on the Central Valley, both on and off the field,” said Assemblyman David Tangipa. “Today, I want to congratulate Derek Carr on his retirement from the NFL and thank him for his unwavering commitment to our community. As one of the young Fresno State athletes motivated by his example back in 2014, to now watching the work Derek and Heather have done through DC4KIDS and their support of Valley Children’s Hospital, it’s clear that Derek’s legacy is so much more than touchdowns and trophies. It’s about heart, faith, and service to others. Welcome home to the Central Valley Derek, Heather and the entire Carr family!”

Derek Carr was born in Bakersfield and raised in the Central Valley. Carr followed in the footsteps of his brother, David Carr, and became one of the greatest quarterbacks to come out of Fresno State. He lead the Fresno State Bulldogs to back-to-back Mountain West Championships and holds the records for career passing yards, career completions, career touchdown passes, and total offensive yards.

The Oakland Raiders drafted Derek Carr in 2014, where he went on to become the team’s all-time leader in passing yards, passing attempts, passing touchdowns, and completions. Derek Carr retired from the NFL after 11 years of professional football service after playing for the Oakland Raiders and New Orleans Saints. Over those 11 years, Carr earned four Pro Bowl selections.

Grounded by a deeply held Christian faith that he has lived out from childhood, church and worship have always come before football. He has used his platform to minister, inspire healing, and stand as a testament to how sports and faith can intersect for the greater good.

Beyond football, Carr’s faith and commitment to community service have defined his legacy. Through his foundation, DC4KIDS, he has supported families navigating pediatric health crises, and his partnership with local organizations have strengthened access to care and community resources in the Valley.

Capitol Office

1021 O Street, Room 7150 Sacramento, CA 95814 Phone: (916) 651-4012 Fax: (916) 651-4916

Bakersfield Office

5701 Truxtun Ave., Suite 150 Bakersfield, CA 93309 Phone: (661) 323-0443 Fax: (661) 323-0446

Fresno Office

567 W. Shaw Ave., Suite A-3 Fresno, CA 93704 Phone:  559-243-8580

facebook Facebook

twitter Twitter

instagram Instagram

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

Home

About Shannon Biography Committees 12th Senate District Map

Biography

Committees

12th Senate District Map

Legislation My Legislation Bill Search Submit a Legislative Proposal

My Legislation

Bill Search

Submit a Legislative Proposal

Newsroom Releases / Editorials Photos

Releases / Editorials

Photos

Resources California Senate Fellows Program Coronavirus Information Education Register to Vote Unclaimed Property Veteran Resources

California Senate Fellows Program

Coronavirus Information

Education

Register to Vote

Unclaimed Property

Veteran Resources

Contact me My Offices E-mail the Senator Subscribe

My Offices

E-mail the Senator

Subscribe

Senator Shannon Grove and Assemblyman David Tangipa  Honor Retired NFL Quarterback, Derek Carr

More News

View All

Breadcrumb

Aug 29
Senator Shannon Grove Celebrates Advancement of Key Bills for Special Education and Rural Healthcare, Expresses Disappointment Over Scrapping of Leno’s Law
Aug 27
VIDEO: Celebrity advocate Paris Hilton calls for passage of child protection measure ahead of key vote
Aug 25
Senator Shannon Grove and Assemblyman David Tangipa  Honor Retired NFL Quarterback, Derek Carr
Aug 21
Senator Shannon Grove opposes Democrats' attempt to override the will of California voters