Senator Rosilicie Ochoa Bogh (R-Yucaipa) is pleased to announce that Senate Bill 1224, addressing the operational needs of the Riverside County Fairgrounds, has been signed into law by Governor Newsom.

“SB 1224 is a practical solution that allows the Riverside County Fairgrounds to continue serving our community and supporting local businesses without unnecessary burdens,” said Senator Ochoa Bogh. “I am grateful for the support from my colleagues and the Governor in recognizing the importance of this bill. Now all patrons can continue to enjoy adult beverages with food at the Riverside County Fair and National Date Festival. Thank you to the County of Riverside for partnering with me on this bill.”

SB 1224 allows the Riverside County Fairgrounds to serve alcohol on-site provided that food service is available to the public at all times during events. This legislative change addresses the unique circumstances and operational challenges faced by the fairgrounds.

“Since 1947 the National Date Festival has been a storied and integral part of the life of Riverside County residents and visitors,” said Senator Richard D. Roth (D-Riverside), joint author of SB 1224. “Our legislation helps ensure the continued success and longevity of the Riverside County Fair and National Date Festival for decades to come.”

“I appreciate our joint efforts with Senator Ochoa Bogh with this legislation that is helpful to the Riverside County Fair & National Date Festival,” said Riverside County Fourth District Supervisor V. Manuel Perez. “This bill helps continue our longstanding and beloved traditions, for over 75 years now, of providing residents and visitors with fun, rides and shows, as well as the food and drinks that are enjoyed at every Fair.”

The Riverside County Fairgrounds in Indio, California, hosts numerous high-profile events, such as the Annual County Fair & National Date Festival and the Scare and Pumpkin Festival, attracting hundreds of thousands of visitors each year. Despite the site's longstanding tradition of hosting these events, recent changes in alcohol licensing requirements by the Department of Alcoholic Beverage Control (ABC) threatened the fairgrounds' ability to offer alcoholic beverages.

The bill was necessitated by the ABC's requirement for the fairgrounds to qualify as a “bona fide eating place” for alcohol licensing purposes. Despite the fairgrounds' history of meeting previous requirements through off-track betting facilities (which ceased in 2015), the current setup with food trucks and caterers did not meet the new standards.

SB 1224 resolves this by ensuring that the fairgrounds can continue to serve adult beverages with food available, aligning with the fairgrounds' operational model.

Capitol Office

1021 O Street, Room 7220 Sacramento, CA 95814 Phone: (916) 651-4019 Fax: (916) 651-4919

Redlands Office

1758 Orange Tree Lane, Suite B Redlands, CA 92374 Phone: (909) 335-0271 Fax: (909) 335-0282

facebook Facebook

twitter Twitter

instagram Instagram

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

Home

About Rosilicie My Legislation Current Legislation Legislative Accomplishments 2024 Legislative Accomplishments 2023 Legislative Accomplishments 2022-21 Bill Search Committees Biography

My Legislation Current Legislation Legislative Accomplishments 2024 Legislative Accomplishments 2023 Legislative Accomplishments 2022-21 Bill Search

Current Legislation

Legislative Accomplishments 2024

Legislative Accomplishments 2023

Legislative Accomplishments 2022-21

Bill Search

Committees

Biography

District District Map Virtual Insurance Town Hall Virtual PSPS Town Hall Wildfire Resources

District Map

Virtual Insurance Town Hall

Virtual PSPS Town Hall

Wildfire Resources

Newsroom Releases/Editorials

Releases/Editorials

Contact Me Constituent Services E-mail the Senator Look Ahead Mobile Office Hours My Offices State Agencies Subscribe

Constituent Services

E-mail the Senator

Look Ahead

Mobile Office Hours

My Offices

State Agencies

Subscribe

Senator Ochoa Bogh Secures Future of Riverside County Fairgrounds for Community Enjoyment

Breadcrumb