Senator Rosilicie Ochoa Bogh (R-Yucaipa) has named Citrograph Printing Co. as Small Business of the Year for the 23rd Senate District.

“Citrograph Printing Co. exemplifies the tenacity, drive, and perseverance needed to operate a successful business. Not only has this business been operational throughout many generations, but it also remained a constant reminder of the entrepreneurial spirit of the Inland Empire. Businesses like Citrograph Printing Co. paved the way for other small companies and industries to grow and evolve in their own business practices,” said Senator Ochoa Bogh. “I am honored to recognize Citrograph Printing Co. as the 2022 Small Business of the Year for Senate District 23. Over the past 135 years, it is clear that Citrograph Printing Co. has committed themselves to being true leaders and engaged dedicated business-owners who showcase the values we hold paramount within our own communities.”

The Citrograph was established in 1887 as the first newspaper in Redlands. Owner Mr. Scipio Craig served as editor and operator and received many accolades for his work. After the passing of Mr. Craig, the newspaper ceased publication, but the printing business continued.

This institution has shifted ownership 6 times in the past 135 years with each owner being a prior employee of Citrograph Printing Co., exemplifying the community roots of this valued business. Al Hernandez and Ryan Bailey, who have owned Citrograph Printing Co. since 2002, have expanded the print services provided to the community, including digital printing and publishing. Strong advocates for community empowerment, they also established the Citrograph Foundation, which awards scholarships to local college-bound students who are going into the fields of music, business, and graphic design, and awards grants to local youth athletic and art programs

“When Ryan and I assumed the ownership of this historic business 22 years ago, we knew we had a big responsibility to keep it going and keep working with our community. We have been able to keep Citrograph Printing Co. strong by changing with the times, updating systems and offering new services and products,” said Hernandez. “When it comes down to it, methods have changed over 135 years, but the key is still, putting ink on paper with the best possible customer service at the best value for the client.

“We also understand the importance of community so that is why Ryan and I established the Citrograph Foundation. Through the Foundation, we are able to support local students with educational scholarships, and local youth athletic and art programs with grants. Since its founding in 2002, the Foundation has awarded over $150,000 in scholarships and grants and has established an investment account so that the foundation can continue well into the future.”

California Small Business Day is an annual event held by the California Small Business Association. It is an opportunity for each member of the Legislature to recognize small businesses who have made significant contributions to their community.

Capitol Office

1021 O Street, Room 7220 Sacramento, CA 95814 Phone: (916) 651-4019 Fax: (916) 651-4919

Redlands Office

1758 Orange Tree Lane, Suite B Redlands, CA 92374 Phone: (909) 335-0271 Fax: (909) 335-0282

facebook Facebook

twitter Twitter

instagram Instagram

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

Home

About Rosilicie My Legislation Current Legislation Legislative Accomplishments 2024 Legislative Accomplishments 2023 Legislative Accomplishments 2022-21 Bill Search Committees Biography

My Legislation Current Legislation Legislative Accomplishments 2024 Legislative Accomplishments 2023 Legislative Accomplishments 2022-21 Bill Search

Current Legislation

Legislative Accomplishments 2024

Legislative Accomplishments 2023

Legislative Accomplishments 2022-21

Bill Search

Committees

Biography

District District Map Virtual Insurance Town Hall Virtual PSPS Town Hall Wildfire Resources

District Map

Virtual Insurance Town Hall

Virtual PSPS Town Hall

Wildfire Resources

Newsroom Releases/Editorials

Releases/Editorials

Contact Me Constituent Services E-mail the Senator Look Ahead Mobile Office Hours My Offices State Agencies Subscribe

Constituent Services

E-mail the Senator

Look Ahead

Mobile Office Hours

My Offices

State Agencies

Subscribe

Senator Ochoa Bogh Honors Citrograph Printing Co. as Small Business of the Year

Breadcrumb