The US Supreme Court’s ruling in the Dobbs case reversed the longstanding federal law on abortion established by Roe v. Wade . With that reversal, and in the absence of further Presidential or Congressional action, individual state law will now control the accessibility and legality of abortion in the respective states.

As a State Senator, my pro-life position has been long established and it would be disingenuous of me to suddenly change positions. I do not support a total ban on abortion—I do support a woman’s right to abortion in cases involving instances of rape, incest, and the life of the mother. Furthermore, I do not support the criminalization and prosecution of women who received an abortion or doctors who perform abortions.

While the Dobbs case may have a disparate effect on individual rights depending upon where one lives, the Attorney General of the State of California has made clear that “the ruling does not change your rights in California.” Abortion remains legal and guaranteed by the California Constitution.

Still, California Democrat leaders will seek to politicize the court’s decision here as a means of distracting voters from their horrific record going into the November elections – soaring inflation, record unaffordability, rampant homelessness, and surging crime. California is broken right now with respect to these primary issues and the Governor and Democratic leadership in Sacramento deserve to own that fact, but they won’t. As a state senator from San Diego, I intend to continue focusing my efforts on fixing a broken California and trying to return it to the luster and promise it once had as the golden state where one could live, work and raise a family.

Capitol Office

1021 O Street, Room 7640 Sacramento, CA 95814 Phone: (916) 651-4040 Fax: (916) 651-4940

Scripps Ranch Office

10650 Treena Street #110 San Diego, CA 92131 Phone: (858) 547-3818

Escondido Office

720 N. Broadway, Suite 110 Escondido, CA 92025 Phone: (760) 796-4655

facebook Facebook

twitter Twitter

instagram Instagram

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

Home

About Brian Biography

Biography

Legislation My Legislation Committees Bill Search

My Legislation

Committees

Bill Search

Newsroom Releases/Editorials In The News Audio/Video Are You Kidding Me? Photos Media Kit

Releases/Editorials

In The News

Audio/Video

Are You Kidding Me?

Photos

Media Kit

Contact Me Certificate Request District Internship Program District Map E-mail the Senator Legislative Proposal My Offices Subscribe to the Mailing List

Certificate Request

District Internship Program

District Map

E-mail the Senator

Legislative Proposal

My Offices

Subscribe to the Mailing List

Senator Jones' Statement on Reversal of Roe V. Wade

More News

ICYMI

View All

Breadcrumb

Aug 6
California Republicans’ Growing Impact on Social Media
Jul 16
Leader Jones Stands on Steps of the Capitol Opposing the Anti-Charter School Bill
Jul 16
AB 84 Charter Schools Press Conference
Jul 15
Leader Jones Demands Accountability on Dangerous Sexually Violent Predator Program

Jun 17
2025
$8-a-gallon gas? Senate Minority Leader Brian W. Jones requests audit of gas price hikes
Jun 9
2025
Nixed bill could have prevented LA unrest, California minority leader says
Jun 8
2025
California lawmaker warns Menendez brothers' case is driving return of bill to release thousands of killers
Jun 3
2025
Ramona nonprofit, resident recognized with Senate District 40 awards