Today, Senate Minority Leader Brian Jones ( R-San Diego ) presented an amendment to address illegal and violent protests on public state colleges and universities. Click here to read the amendment, here to view the vote on the amendments, and here to view/download the presentation.

“Violence and illegal activity of any kind is NOT protected by the First Amendment,” said Leader Jones. “Taxpayers should not be bankrolling lawlessness on our campuses. Earlier this year, I called to defund ineffective college administrations and revoke taxpayer tuition subsidies for criminal protesters. Our amendment today would have done that. It’s disappointing to see Senate Democrats quickly shoot it down without any consideration for the safety and well-being of our students.”

Specifically, Leader Jones’s amendments would have done two things to ensure accountability for illegal protest activities on public California colleges and universities between April 1, 2024 and December 31, 2025:

1. Require that funds used for law enforcement during illegal protests, as well as any legal damages resulting from such protests, come solely from the administrative budgets of the institutions involved.

2. Revoke Cal Grants from students who are found guilty or are expelled for their involvement in illegal protest activities including incitement to riot, vandalism, and discrimination based on religious beliefs.

In Spring 2024, pro-Hamas protests sprang up across California college campuses with illegal encampments, violence, vandalism, and religious discrimination. Leader Jones published an op-ed in the San Diego Union-Tribune outlining his plan to hold students and administrations accountable for these illegal protests.

In a recent ruling, a judge called UCLA’s handling of the illegal protests “unimaginable” and “abhorrent,” finding that UCLA failed to protect the religious freedom of Jewish students by allowing them to be excluded from certain parts of campus during the protests. Under the amendment Leader Jones presented today, UCLA’s Administration would be required to use its budget to pay any legal damages associated with the lawsuit.

California Senate Democrats’ refusal to even debate Leader Jones’s amendment comes as colleges across the state prepare for another wave of protests this fall. Both the California State University and University of California have issued guidelines, restrictions, and expectations for campus protests this year.

“Despite Senate Democrats blocking our amendment, we will continue to closely monitor campus protests and ensure students can exercise their First Amendment rights to protest in accordance with the law,” continued Leader Jones.

Capitol Office

1021 O Street, Room 7640 Sacramento, CA 95814 Phone: (916) 651-4040 Fax: (916) 651-4940

Scripps Ranch Office

10650 Treena Street #110 San Diego, CA 92131 Phone: (858) 547-3818

Escondido Office

720 N. Broadway, Suite 110 Escondido, CA 92025 Phone: (760) 796-4655

facebook Facebook

twitter Twitter

instagram Instagram

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

Home

About Brian Biography

Biography

Legislation My Legislation Committees Bill Search

My Legislation

Committees

Bill Search

Newsroom Releases/Editorials In The News Audio/Video Are You Kidding Me? Photos Media Kit

Releases/Editorials

In The News

Audio/Video

Are You Kidding Me?

Photos

Media Kit

Contact Me Certificate Request District Internship Program District Map E-mail the Senator Legislative Proposal My Offices Subscribe to the Mailing List

Certificate Request

District Internship Program

District Map

E-mail the Senator

Legislative Proposal

My Offices

Subscribe to the Mailing List

Senate Democrats Reject Accountability for Illegal College Protests

More News

ICYMI

View All

Breadcrumb

Aug 6
California Republicans’ Growing Impact on Social Media
Jul 16
Leader Jones Stands on Steps of the Capitol Opposing the Anti-Charter School Bill
Jul 16
AB 84 Charter Schools Press Conference
Jul 15
Leader Jones Demands Accountability on Dangerous Sexually Violent Predator Program

Jun 17
2025
$8-a-gallon gas? Senate Minority Leader Brian W. Jones requests audit of gas price hikes
Jun 9
2025
Nixed bill could have prevented LA unrest, California minority leader says
Jun 8
2025
California lawmaker warns Menendez brothers' case is driving return of bill to release thousands of killers
Jun 3
2025
Ramona nonprofit, resident recognized with Senate District 40 awards