Today, Senate Minority Leader Brian W. Jones ( R-San Diego ) announced that five of his commonsense bills passed the Senate with unanimous, bipartisan support and are now under consideration in the State Assembly. Each of these proposals aims to address urgent issues facing Californians, from public safety and insurance coverage to updating outdated state laws.

“These bills are focused on real problems and offer real solutions,” said Leader Jones . “From protecting communities from sexually violent predators to fixing gaps in insurance coverage for mobile homes, I’m proud to have unanimous support in the Senate and look forward to working with my colleagues in the Assembly to get them across the finish line.”

The five bills include:

SB 356 – Ensures that crime victims and their families can have all evidence considered by the Board of Parole Hearings prior to their perpetrator’s release, including graphic photos of the crime when considering the release of inmates. Click here for the factsheet.

SB 379 (SAFE Act) – Prevents the secret placement of Sexually Violent Predators (SVPs) in unsuspecting neighborhoods by requiring public safety to be considered and restoring accountability to the state’s placement process. Click here for the factsheet.

SB 380 – Implements recommendations from the California State Auditor to improve how SVPs are housed by requiring the Department of State Hospitals to conduct a feasibility study on using transitional housing for SVPs with conditional release. Click here for the factsheet.

SB 525 – Ensures mobile and manufactured homeowners receive equal insurance protection under California’s FAIR Plan, including full replacement value—just like standard homeowners. Click here for the factsheet.

SB 586 – Allows electric off-highway motorcycles (eMotos) to be registered and operated legally, improving safety and access for a fast-growing sector of outdoor recreation. Click here for the factsheet.

All five bills now head to the State Assembly for consideration.

“These are practical, needed changes that will help fix California by protecting communities, improving fairness, and bringing the law up to speed with today’s challenges,” Leader Jones added.

Capitol Office

1021 O Street, Room 7640 Sacramento, CA 95814 Phone: (916) 651-4040 Fax: (916) 651-4940

Scripps Ranch Office

10650 Treena Street #110 San Diego, CA 92131 Phone: (858) 547-3818

Escondido Office

720 N. Broadway, Suite 110 Escondido, CA 92025 Phone: (760) 796-4655

facebook Facebook

twitter Twitter

instagram Instagram

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

Home

About Brian Biography

Biography

Legislation My Legislation Committees Bill Search

My Legislation

Committees

Bill Search

Newsroom Releases/Editorials In The News Audio/Video Are You Kidding Me? Photos Media Kit

Releases/Editorials

In The News

Audio/Video

Are You Kidding Me?

Photos

Media Kit

Contact Me Certificate Request District Internship Program District Map E-mail the Senator Legislative Proposal My Offices Subscribe to the Mailing List

Certificate Request

District Internship Program

District Map

E-mail the Senator

Legislative Proposal

My Offices

Subscribe to the Mailing List

Senate Passes 5 Bipartisan Bills by Leader Jones

More News

ICYMI

View All

Breadcrumb

Aug 6
California Republicans’ Growing Impact on Social Media
Jul 16
Leader Jones Stands on Steps of the Capitol Opposing the Anti-Charter School Bill
Jul 16
AB 84 Charter Schools Press Conference
Jul 15
Leader Jones Demands Accountability on Dangerous Sexually Violent Predator Program

Jun 17
2025
$8-a-gallon gas? Senate Minority Leader Brian W. Jones requests audit of gas price hikes
Jun 9
2025
Nixed bill could have prevented LA unrest, California minority leader says
Jun 8
2025
California lawmaker warns Menendez brothers' case is driving return of bill to release thousands of killers
Jun 3
2025
Ramona nonprofit, resident recognized with Senate District 40 awards