Today, Senator Choi shown a spotlight on the REACH Foundation as the 37 th Senate District 2025 California Nonprofit of the Year. The REACH Foundation is among many nonprofits being recognized this year by the California Association of Nonprofits (CalNonprofits) as part of their annual celebration of these important community resources.

﻿ “Nonprofits have an important impact on our communities and I am happy to highlight one of those organizations in my community today,” said Senator Choi. “The REACH Foundation is an enthusiastic organization that engages with 23,000 students throughout 34 schools to enrich important programs focused on improving students’ life and learning skills.”

Founded in 2012, the REACH Foundation’s mission is to enrich, inspire and engage learners through educational experiences in collaboration with Placentia-Yorba Linda Unified School District. They accomplish this by partnering with over 50 community organizations and businesses to foster student excitement for STEAM (science, technology, engineering, arts, and math).

“ We are grateful for the work of the REACH Foundation and want to extend our congratulations for this well-deserved recognition,” said Geoff Green, CEO of the California Association of Nonprofits (CalNonprofits), the sponsor of the California Nonprofit of the Year initiative.

Nonprofits are the backbones of our communities, providing services and fulfilling needs of their members. Senator Choi is proud to recognize the REACH Foundation for all they do for students across the Placentia-Yorba Linda Unified School District.

Senator Choi is planning another special recognition for REACH in the District at a later date.

Capitol

District

3200 El Camino Real, Suite 230 Irvine, CA 92602 Phone: (714) 544-1035

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

<d

Home

About Dr. Choi Biography Committees

Biography

Committees

Legislation

Newsroom Releases / Opinions Important Updates Audio / Video Photo Gallery

Releases / Opinions

Important Updates

Audio / Video

Photo Gallery

Contact Me District Internship Program District Map Email the Senator My Offices

District Internship Program

District Map

Email the Senator

My Offices

Senator Choi Recognizes the REACH Foundation

Breadcrumb