Senator Shannon Grove (R-Bakersfield) expressed profound disappointment following the Senate Education Committee’s vote of 5-2 to kill SB 64, the California Education Flex Account Act of 2025. SB 64 would have been part of a solution to address California’s low educational ranking of 37th in the nation. The measure would have transformed K-12 education in California by empowering parents with the ability to select the accredited school that best suits their child’s unique needs and ensure that education funding follows the student. Click HERE to view remarks from Senator Grove and Deacon John Wilson at her press conference prior to the bill's hearing.

“Senate Bill 64 would have empowered families, not bureaucracies, and let the money follow the child,” said Senator Grove . “The Senate Education Committee’s decision to kill SB 64 denies parents and students the chance to thrive in schools tailored to their needs. Currently, when students are trapped in low-performing schools simply because of their zip code or in a school model that does not meet their needs the results are predictable—failure. When given a choice, it’s proven they excel. We will not stop fighting for that choice.”

California spends approximately $24,700 per student well above the national average but consistently ranks near the bottom in academic achievement among 4th and 8th graders. Despite this significant investment, many parents believe the current system fails to prepare students for college and careers.

Students of color, particularly African American and Latino students, disproportionately face challenges in meeting grade-level standards in English Language Arts and Mathematics. Yet when given options, Black and Hispanic students from low-income neighborhoods outperform their peers in traditional public schools. In fact, 33% of the top public high schools for low-income African American students are charters, and 52% of the top public high schools for low-income Latino students are charters.

Senate Bill 64 would have provided the following for California students:

Individualized Flex Accounts:

Establishes a School Choice Flex Account providing $8,000 for tuition and education-related expenses.

Creates a Special Education Flex Account offering $16,000 for students with special needs.

Funds are specific to each school year, with unused balances reverting to the state’s General Fund for K-12 education.

Supporting Existing Public Schools:

Local and federal funding will remain allocated to public schools, increasing per-pupil spending for students who continue in their local schools.

Accountability and Accessibility:

Ensures that all funds are utilized for accredited educational institutions, providing parents with confidence and transparency.

Senator Grove authored SB 64 to ensure that:

Students can access schools tailored to their learning styles and goals.

Public schools retain critical funding to support their students.

Families of all backgrounds have equal opportunities to seek quality education, including those in special education programs.

Despite today’s setback, Senator Grove remains committed to advancing educational opportunities for all California students and vows to continue the fight for school choice.

Capitol Office

1021 O Street, Room 7150 Sacramento, CA 95814 Phone: (916) 651-4012 Fax: (916) 651-4916

Bakersfield Office

5701 Truxtun Ave., Suite 150 Bakersfield, CA 93309 Phone: (661) 323-0443 Fax: (661) 323-0446

Fresno Office

567 W. Shaw Ave., Suite A-3 Fresno, CA 93704 Phone:  559-243-8580

facebook Facebook

twitter Twitter

instagram Instagram

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

Senator Shannon Grove (R-Bakersfield) with members of the Senate and Assembly Republican Caucuses along with educators and parents at her SB 64 rally prior to the bill's hearing. Photo courtesy: Alex Bello, Senate Republican Caucus

Home

About Shannon Biography Committees 12th Senate District Map

Biography

Committees

12th Senate District Map

Legislation My Legislation Bill Search Submit a Legislative Proposal

My Legislation

Bill Search

Submit a Legislative Proposal

Newsroom Releases / Editorials Photos

Releases / Editorials

Photos

Resources California Senate Fellows Program Coronavirus Information Education Register to Vote Unclaimed Property Veteran Resources

California Senate Fellows Program

Coronavirus Information

Education

Register to Vote

Unclaimed Property

Veteran Resources

Contact me My Offices E-mail the Senator Subscribe

My Offices

E-mail the Senator

Subscribe

Senate Education Committee votes down Senator Shannon Grove’s School Choice Measure

More News

View All

Breadcrumb

Aug 29
Senator Shannon Grove Celebrates Advancement of Key Bills for Special Education and Rural Healthcare, Expresses Disappointment Over Scrapping of Leno’s Law
Aug 27
VIDEO: Celebrity advocate Paris Hilton calls for passage of child protection measure ahead of key vote
Aug 25
Senator Shannon Grove and Assemblyman David Tangipa  Honor Retired NFL Quarterback, Derek Carr
Aug 21
Senator Shannon Grove opposes Democrats' attempt to override the will of California voters