Senator Shannon Grove ( R-Bakersfield ) is pleased to announce her bipartisan legislation, Senate Bill 1043 , the Accountability in Children’s Treatment (ACT) measure, has passed off the Assembly Floor. Celebrity advocate Paris Hilton and her nonprofit organization 11:11 Media Impact are the sponsor of the measure.

California’s short-term residential therapeutic programs (STRTPs) serve children and young adults who need an increased level of care, and these treatment facilities have the ability to use restraints and seclusion rooms if the facility believes the patient is a danger to themselves or others.

These facilities are required to report all restraint and seclusion room use to the California Department of Social Services (CDSS). The department is then required to put this information online and make it available to the public. However, the information has yet to be posted online and made publicly available. SB 1043 will require CDSS to publicly post this critical data, including each incident report. The Accountability in Children’s Treatment Act addresses the shortfall of the department not publishing the data for the public access.

“I am proud that my bill, The Accountability in Children’s Treatment Act, just passed off the Assembly floor and is heading to the Senate for a final vote," said Senator Grove . "It has been an incredible honor to work side by side with advocate Paris Hilton to protect California’s most vulnerable youth in treatment programs.

My bill will ensure children who are living in California’s short-term residential therapeutic programs (STRTPs) receive the highest level of transparency in their care. With these facilities already having the ability to physically restrain children or put them in a seclusion room, my measure will only further promote California’s commitment to accountability in our children’s care.”

SB 1043 will move to the Senate Floor for a final vote by the end of this week.

Capitol Office

1021 O Street, Room 7150 Sacramento, CA 95814 Phone: (916) 651-4012 Fax: (916) 651-4916

Bakersfield Office

5701 Truxtun Ave., Suite 150 Bakersfield, CA 93309 Phone: (661) 323-0443 Fax: (661) 323-0446

Fresno Office

567 W. Shaw Ave., Suite A-3 Fresno, CA 93704 Phone:  559-243-8580

facebook Facebook

twitter Twitter

instagram Instagram

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

Home

About Shannon Biography Committees 12th Senate District Map

Biography

Committees

12th Senate District Map

Legislation My Legislation Bill Search Submit a Legislative Proposal

My Legislation

Bill Search

Submit a Legislative Proposal

Newsroom Releases / Editorials Photos

Releases / Editorials

Photos

Resources California Senate Fellows Program Coronavirus Information Education Register to Vote Unclaimed Property Veteran Resources

California Senate Fellows Program

Coronavirus Information

Education

Register to Vote

Unclaimed Property

Veteran Resources

Contact me My Offices E-mail the Senator Subscribe

My Offices

E-mail the Senator

Subscribe

Senator Shannon Grove’s Accountability in Children's Treatment Act moves to Senate floor for final vote

More News

View All

Breadcrumb

Aug 29
Senator Shannon Grove Celebrates Advancement of Key Bills for Special Education and Rural Healthcare, Expresses Disappointment Over Scrapping of Leno’s Law
Aug 27
VIDEO: Celebrity advocate Paris Hilton calls for passage of child protection measure ahead of key vote
Aug 25
Senator Shannon Grove and Assemblyman David Tangipa  Honor Retired NFL Quarterback, Derek Carr
Aug 21
Senator Shannon Grove opposes Democrats' attempt to override the will of California voters