Senate Minority Leader Brian W. Jones ( R-San Diego ) is warning Californians to brace for even higher gas prices, fuel shortages, job losses, and rising costs across the board as a result of the radical energy policies pushed by Governor Newsom and Sacramento Democrats.

‚ÄúValero intends to shut down its Benicia refinery thanks to Newsom and radical Democrats‚Äô extreme regulations and hostile business climate,‚Äù said Leader Jones. ‚ÄúThey‚Äôre attacking the very energy suppliers we rely on, despite the consequences we‚Äôre already seeing: lost jobs, higher costs for businesses, and rising prices on everyday goods.

‚ÄúHardworking California¬Ýfamilies¬Ýare paying the price. We already have the highest gas prices in the nation and it‚Äôs about to get worse,‚Äù continued Leader Jones.

This morning, Valero Energy Corporation announced its intent to idle, restructure, or cease refining operations at its Benicia, California refinery by the end of April 2026.‚Äã

The Valero announcement follows a broader trend of energy companies being driven out of California by skyrocketing costs and excessive regulation. Last year, Phillips 66 announced the permanent closure of a major Los Angeles refinery, eliminating 8% of the state‚Äôs refining capacity. Similarly, Chevron is relocating its headquarters from California to Houston, drawn by Texas‚Äôs far more business-friendly environment and lower regulatory burdens.

Over the past several years, the California Air Resources Board (CARB) has stacked regulation on top of regulation, making it nearly impossible for in-state energy producers to survive. Meanwhile, Governor Newsom and Democratic lawmakers continue to impose unrealistic electric vehicle mandates , arbitrary ‚Äúclimate goals,‚Äù and costly policies that ignore the economic fallout and impact on hardworking Californians.

These policies are not only driving up the cost of producing and refining fuel, they‚Äôre eliminating good-paying jobs, shuttering local businesses, and squeezing California‚Äôs already-struggling middle class.‚Äã The Phillips 66 closure affects 600 employees and 300 contract workers. Chevron is laying off 600 California workers as it shifts operations out of state. While the full job impact of Valero‚Äôs closure is still unknown, Benicia city officials anticipate ‚Äúsignificant transition‚Äù for the local community.

A new study by Michael Mische with the USC Marshall School of Business underscores the root cause of California‚Äôs fuel crisis. The report concludes that ‚ÄúCalifornia‚Äôs high gasoline prices and supply dilemmas are, by design, engineering or serendipitously, largely self-inflicted, and the result of directed policies and a litany of regulations, taxes, fees, and costs.‚Äù

‚ÄúThe damage doesn‚Äôt stop at the pump,‚Äù said Leader Jones. ‚ÄúRising fuel prices and supply shortages impact everything from groceries and goods to fire trucks and police patrols. Every delivery truck, every city service vehicle, and every nonprofit serving the most vulnerable is affected when energy costs soar.‚Äã‚Äù

Senate Minority Leader Brian W. Jones previously warned Californians to save for higher gas prices in 2025. This latest development is further proof that the impact is not just coming‚Äîit‚Äôs here.

Capitol Office

1021 O Street, Room 7640 Sacramento, CA 95814 Phone: (916) 651-4040 Fax: (916) 651-4940

Scripps Ranch Office

10650 Treena Street #110 San Diego, CA 92131 Phone: (858) 547-3818

Escondido Office

720 N. Broadway, Suite 110 Escondido, CA 92025 Phone: (760) 796-4655

facebook Facebook

twitter Twitter

instagram Instagram

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

Home

About Brian Biography

Biography

Legislation My Legislation Committees Bill Search

My Legislation

Committees

Bill Search

Newsroom Releases/Editorials In The News Audio/Video Are You Kidding Me? Photos Media Kit

Releases/Editorials

In The News

Audio/Video

Are You Kidding Me?

Photos

Media Kit

Contact Me Certificate Request District Internship Program District Map E-mail the Senator Legislative Proposal My Offices Subscribe to the Mailing List

Certificate Request

District Internship Program

District Map

E-mail the Senator

Legislative Proposal

My Offices

Subscribe to the Mailing List

Senate Minority Leader Jones Warns Californians to Brace for Impact as Valero Plans to Close Benicia Refinery

More News

ICYMI

View All

Breadcrumb

Aug 6
California Republicans‚Äô Growing Impact on Social Media
Jul 16
Leader Jones Stands on Steps of the Capitol Opposing the Anti-Charter School Bill
Jul 16
AB 84 Charter Schools Press Conference
Jul 15
Leader Jones Demands Accountability on Dangerous Sexually Violent Predator Program

Jun 17
2025
$8-a-gallon gas? Senate Minority Leader Brian W. Jones requests audit of gas price hikes
Jun 9
2025
Nixed bill could have prevented LA unrest, California minority leader says
Jun 8
2025
California lawmaker warns Menendez brothers' case is driving return of bill to release thousands of killers
Jun 3
2025
Ramona nonprofit, resident recognized with Senate District 40 awards