This morning, Senate Minority Leader Brian Jones ( R-San Diego) forced a floor vote on Senate Bill 2 , his legislation to repeal Governor Gavin Newsom’s 65-cent gas price hike. Senate Democrats unanimously voted to block the bill. Click here to watch the vote.

“I forced a Senate Floor vote to repeal Governor Newsom’s 65-cent gas price hike,” said Leader Jones. “Senate Democrats unanimously opposed it. They had a chance to stand with California drivers, but instead, they chose to defend the highest gas prices in the nation.”

SB 2 would have immediately halted the costly update to the state’s Low Carbon Fuel Standard (LCFS), which the Kleinman Center for Energy Policy at the University of Pennsylvania estimates will raise gas prices by up to 65 cents per gallon. The regulation was pushed through by the California Air Resources Board (CARB)—a panel of wealthy unelected bureaucrats who are hand-picked and directed by the Governor .

Just last week, CARB Chair Liane Randolph admitted that the Board does not consider how its regulations affect prices at the pump, confirming growing concerns that Newsom’s climate agenda is blind to its economic consequences.

“That admission is stunning,” continued Leader Jones. “CARB is making billion-dollar decisions that hit every family at the pump, and they’re doing it without even asking what it will cost. That level of arrogance and detachment from reality is exactly why we need SB 2.”

Meanwhile, Californians are about to get hit again. This morning, the California Department of Tax and Fee Administration announced that the state’s gas excise tax will increase to 61.2 cents per gallon on July 1, the same day that the new 65-cent LCFS regulations will take effect. That’s a one-two punch at the pump for working families already crushed by the cost of living. Rather than offering relief, Sacramento is doubling down on higher gas prices.

The consequences of constant regulatory overload are staggering. According to USC Professor Michael Mische, California gas prices could soar 75% to $8.43 per gallon by 2026, driven by refinery shutdowns and the state’s overreach with excessive regulation and taxation, including the updated LCFS.

“Democrats love to talk about affordability until they actually have to vote on it,” Leader Jones added . “Senate Republicans will keep fighting to stop these reckless gas hikes and force real accountability from the Governor and his regulators.”

Leader Jones has been a leading voice in the fight to repeal Governor Newsom’s 65-cent gas hike and lower fuel costs for Californians. He sounded the alarm early in an op-ed published in the San Diego Union-Tribune , exposing Newsom’s plan to raise gas prices and push drivers out of gas-powered cars and into electric vehicles.

Capitol Office

1021 O Street, Room 7640 Sacramento, CA 95814 Phone: (916) 651-4040 Fax: (916) 651-4940

Scripps Ranch Office

10650 Treena Street #110 San Diego, CA 92131 Phone: (858) 547-3818

Escondido Office

720 N. Broadway, Suite 110 Escondido, CA 92025 Phone: (760) 796-4655

facebook Facebook

twitter Twitter

instagram Instagram

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

Home

About Brian Biography

Biography

Legislation My Legislation Committees Bill Search

My Legislation

Committees

Bill Search

Newsroom Releases/Editorials In The News Audio/Video Are You Kidding Me? Photos Media Kit

Releases/Editorials

In The News

Audio/Video

Are You Kidding Me?

Photos

Media Kit

Contact Me Certificate Request District Internship Program District Map E-mail the Senator Legislative Proposal My Offices Subscribe to the Mailing List

Certificate Request

District Internship Program

District Map

E-mail the Senator

Legislative Proposal

My Offices

Subscribe to the Mailing List

Senate Democrats Vote for Higher Gas Prices

More News

ICYMI

View All

Breadcrumb

Aug 6
California Republicans’ Growing Impact on Social Media
Jul 16
Leader Jones Stands on Steps of the Capitol Opposing the Anti-Charter School Bill
Jul 16
AB 84 Charter Schools Press Conference
Jul 15
Leader Jones Demands Accountability on Dangerous Sexually Violent Predator Program

Jun 17
2025
$8-a-gallon gas? Senate Minority Leader Brian W. Jones requests audit of gas price hikes
Jun 9
2025
Nixed bill could have prevented LA unrest, California minority leader says
Jun 8
2025
California lawmaker warns Menendez brothers' case is driving return of bill to release thousands of killers
Jun 3
2025
Ramona nonprofit, resident recognized with Senate District 40 awards