SACRAMENTO – As an entrepreneur and a proponent of small business owners, Senate Republican Leader Shannon Grove ( R-Bakersfield ) released the following statement regarding the Small Business Administration (SBA) announcement to offer disaster assistance for small business owners during the Coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic:

“Small businesses are the economic engine and backbone of California’s economy. The Coronavirus pandemic has put a financial strain on many job creators and workers. These much-needed low-interest loans will provide support for our small businesses until our economy rebounds from the effects of the Coronavirus. They will offer a hand-up to small business owners and provide a financial lifeline to those workers employed by the impacted businesses.

“My staff and I remain committed to serving the constituents of Senate District 16 during these difficult times. My team is working hard to share updated information and to direct constituents to the most up-to-date resources,” said Senate Republican Leader Shannon Grove.

The SBA said the interest rate is 3.75 percent for small businesses. The interest rate for private non-profit organizations is 2.75 percent. SBA offers loans with long-term repayments in order to keep payments affordable, up to a maximum of 30 years and are available to entities without the financial ability to offset the adverse impact without hardship.

“SBA is strongly committed to providing the most effective and customer-focused response possible to assist California small businesses with federal disaster loans. We will be swift in our efforts to help these small businesses recover from the financial impacts of the Coronavirus (COVID-19),” said SBA Administrator Jovita Carranza.

For more information about available SBA resources and services, please visit: www.sba.gov/coronavirus . To apply for a SBA disaster relief loan, please visit: www.sba.gov/disaster . The deadline to apply for an Economic Injury Disaster Loan is Dec. 16, 2020.

For more information about the Coronavirus, please visit: https://www.cdc.gov/ coronavirus/2019-ncov/index. html

Capitol Office

1021 O Street, Room 7150 Sacramento, CA 95814 Phone: (916) 651-4012 Fax: (916) 651-4916

Bakersfield Office

5701 Truxtun Ave., Suite 150 Bakersfield, CA 93309 Phone: (661) 323-0443 Fax: (661) 323-0446

Fresno Office

567 W. Shaw Ave., Suite A-3 Fresno, CA 93704 Phone:  559-243-8580

facebook Facebook

twitter Twitter

instagram Instagram

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

Home

About Shannon Biography Committees 12th Senate District Map

Biography

Committees

12th Senate District Map

Legislation My Legislation Bill Search Submit a Legislative Proposal

My Legislation

Bill Search

Submit a Legislative Proposal

Newsroom Releases / Editorials Photos

Releases / Editorials

Photos

Resources California Senate Fellows Program Coronavirus Information Education Register to Vote Unclaimed Property Veteran Resources

California Senate Fellows Program

Coronavirus Information

Education

Register to Vote

Unclaimed Property

Veteran Resources

Contact me My Offices E-mail the Senator Subscribe

My Offices

E-mail the Senator

Subscribe

Senator Grove Announces SBA disaster assistance loans available to small businesses impacted by COVID-19

More News

View All

Breadcrumb

Aug 29
Senator Shannon Grove Celebrates Advancement of Key Bills for Special Education and Rural Healthcare, Expresses Disappointment Over Scrapping of Leno’s Law
Aug 27
VIDEO: Celebrity advocate Paris Hilton calls for passage of child protection measure ahead of key vote
Aug 25
Senator Shannon Grove and Assemblyman David Tangipa  Honor Retired NFL Quarterback, Derek Carr
Aug 21
Senator Shannon Grove opposes Democrats' attempt to override the will of California voters