SACRAMENTO – Senate Republican Leader Shannon Grove ( R-Bakersfield ) released the following statement after she received an appointment to the prominent Governor’s Military Council (GMC):

“I thank the governor for appointing me to the very prestigious Governor’s Military Council. When I first enlisted in the U.S. Army, I swore an oath to support and defend the Constitution of the United States against all enemies, foreign and domestic. I am grateful for the ability to continue to defend the Constitution in my capacity as a Senator and now as an appointee to the Governor’s Military Council.

“With several noteworthy military bases in my district, including Edwards Air Force Base and Naval Air Weapons Station China Lake, I am proud to advocate for them. Our active duty service members and veterans have selflessly served our country and I am thrilled to be on a Council that supports them,” said Senate Republican Leader Shannon Grove.

Background: With 30 federal military bases in California employing more than 236,000 people, the mission of the GMC is to protect California’s military installations and leverage changes in federal military strategy to position the state to continue innovation and leadership in its military mission.

Senator Grove is a proud veteran of the United States Army and the first female veteran elected to serve in the California State Legislature.  During her service in the Army, Senator Grove was stationed in Frankfurt, Germany where she witnessed the fall of the Berlin Wall in 1989. This experience solidified her passionate patriotism and appreciation for the freedoms our country offers to all citizens.

Capitol Office

1021 O Street, Room 7150 Sacramento, CA 95814 Phone: (916) 651-4012 Fax: (916) 651-4916

Bakersfield Office

5701 Truxtun Ave., Suite 150 Bakersfield, CA 93309 Phone: (661) 323-0443 Fax: (661) 323-0446

Fresno Office

567 W. Shaw Ave., Suite A-3 Fresno, CA 93704 Phone:  559-243-8580

facebook Facebook

twitter Twitter

instagram Instagram

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

Home

About Shannon Biography Committees 12th Senate District Map

Biography

Committees

12th Senate District Map

Legislation My Legislation Bill Search Submit a Legislative Proposal

My Legislation

Bill Search

Submit a Legislative Proposal

Newsroom Releases / Editorials Photos

Releases / Editorials

Photos

Resources California Senate Fellows Program Coronavirus Information Education Register to Vote Unclaimed Property Veteran Resources

California Senate Fellows Program

Coronavirus Information

Education

Register to Vote

Unclaimed Property

Veteran Resources

Contact me My Offices E-mail the Senator Subscribe

My Offices

E-mail the Senator

Subscribe

Senate Republican Leader Grove Receives Appointment to Governor's Military Council

More News

View All

Breadcrumb

Aug 29
Senator Shannon Grove Celebrates Advancement of Key Bills for Special Education and Rural Healthcare, Expresses Disappointment Over Scrapping of Leno’s Law
Aug 27
VIDEO: Celebrity advocate Paris Hilton calls for passage of child protection measure ahead of key vote
Aug 25
Senator Shannon Grove and Assemblyman David Tangipa  Honor Retired NFL Quarterback, Derek Carr
Aug 21
Senator Shannon Grove opposes Democrats' attempt to override the will of California voters