Hours after Senate Minority Leader Brian W. Jones ( R-San Diego ) and other members of the Senate Republican Caucus formally called for Governor Newsom and Democrat leadership to withdraw their soft-on-crime ballot measure, Newsom scrapped this last-minute election interference plot.

“The People win! After mounting opposition and brutal media hits, Gavin Newsom finally dropped his soft-on-crime ballot measure that would have undermined our democracy,” said Leader Jones. “For once, Californians benefitted from having a governor who cares more about national politics than his job in Sacramento. Thank you Californians for helping hold our government accountable and making your voices heard. This is a win for democracy and a win for the people. We are fixing California.”

“At the heart of it all is the will of the people and democracy,” said Senator Roger Niello ( R-Fair Oaks ). “The democratic leadership’s attempt to confuse the public fell short. People are fed up with a government that constantly shields criminals. It is crucial that we address California’s public safety crisis by holding criminals accountable and making our communities safer.”

Senate Republicans scored the following victories for Californians:

Advocated for a bipartisan Public Safety Package to curb retail theft, illegal fentanyl sales, and other crimes plaguing California .

Successfully pressured Democrats to remove ‘poison pill’ amendments from the Safer California bill package, which would have nullified the Safer California bills had the citizen-led ballot initiative, the Homelessness, Drug Addiction & Retail Theft Act, passed in November.

Successfully exposed the false narrative of Governor Newsom and Democrat leadership with their phony crime measure , Senate Bill 1381.

Successfully pressured Democrats to withdraw their soft-on-crime measure from consideration for the November ballot. This is a major win for democracy and Californians as Governor Newsom and Democrat leadership attempted, and failed, to play politics with public safety.

Capitol

Roseville

2200A Douglas Blvd, Ste 100 Roseville, CA 95661 Phone: (916) 772-0571 Fax: (916) 772-0589

Rancho Cordova

2729 Prospect Park Drive, Suite 130 Rancho Cordova, CA 95670 Phone: (916) 464-3980 Fax: (916) 464-3985

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

<d

Home

About Roger Biography Committees

Biography

Committees

Legislation Bill Search

Bill Search

Newsroom Press Releases District Messages In The News Audio / Video Photo Gallery

Press Releases

District Messages

In The News

Audio / Video

Photo Gallery

Contact Me Email the Senator My Offices District Map Subscribe

Email the Senator

My Offices

District Map

Subscribe

Senate Republicans deliver victories for Californians, democracy

Breadcrumb