Senator Shannon Grove (R-Bakersfield) takes immense pleasure in congratulating The Light House Recovery Program on its selection as the 12th Senate District’s 2023 Nonprofit of the Year. Today, Vikki Luna, Founder and CEO of The Light House Recovery Program, was formally recognized during the eighth annual California Nonprofits of the Year event at the state capitol. The organization is being honored for their service, long-term commitment, and leadership in serving the community of Fresno.

Senator Grove released the following statement:

“The Light House Recovery Program has been instrumental in providing critical support to individuals and families struggling with addiction in our community. Through their tireless commitment to helping those in need and their dedication to providing compassionate care, The Light House Recovery Program has made a significant impact on the lives of countless Californians. Their unwavering focus on empowering individuals to achieve lasting recovery is a testament to their mission and values. It is with great admiration and appreciation that I recognize The Light House Recovery Program as the 12th Senate District's Non-Profit of the year,” said Senator Shannon Grove.

“The Light House Board of Directors, staff, and Founder kindly thank Senator Grove for this great acknowledgement and recognition of the work we do and difference we make in the lives of people. Since 2007, our program has helped women overcome addiction and become self-sufficient, with successful outcomes for over 80% of those who complete the program. These resilient women are now making a positive impact in their families, workplaces, and communities,” said Vikki Luna, Founder and CEO of the Light House Recovery Program.

Capitol Office

1021 O Street, Room 7150 Sacramento, CA 95814 Phone: (916) 651-4012 Fax: (916) 651-4916

Bakersfield Office

5701 Truxtun Ave., Suite 150 Bakersfield, CA 93309 Phone: (661) 323-0443 Fax: (661) 323-0446

Fresno Office

567 W. Shaw Ave., Suite A-3 Fresno, CA 93704 Phone:  559-243-8580

facebook Facebook

twitter Twitter

instagram Instagram

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

Home

About Shannon Biography Committees 12th Senate District Map

Biography

Committees

12th Senate District Map

Legislation My Legislation Bill Search Submit a Legislative Proposal

My Legislation

Bill Search

Submit a Legislative Proposal

Newsroom Releases / Editorials Photos

Releases / Editorials

Photos

Resources California Senate Fellows Program Coronavirus Information Education Register to Vote Unclaimed Property Veteran Resources

California Senate Fellows Program

Coronavirus Information

Education

Register to Vote

Unclaimed Property

Veteran Resources

Contact me My Offices E-mail the Senator Subscribe

My Offices

E-mail the Senator

Subscribe

Senator Grove Nominates Fresno’s Light House Recovery Center, 2023 Non-profit of the Year

More News

View All

Breadcrumb

Aug 29
Senator Shannon Grove Celebrates Advancement of Key Bills for Special Education and Rural Healthcare, Expresses Disappointment Over Scrapping of Leno’s Law
Aug 27
VIDEO: Celebrity advocate Paris Hilton calls for passage of child protection measure ahead of key vote
Aug 25
Senator Shannon Grove and Assemblyman David Tangipa  Honor Retired NFL Quarterback, Derek Carr
Aug 21
Senator Shannon Grove opposes Democrats' attempt to override the will of California voters