Memorial Day

This Memorial Day, Heather and I were honored to join the over 1,000 attendees at the memorial event at Mt. Soledad National Veterans Memorial.

There was a special plaque dedicated to Doris (Dorie) Miller during the ceremony. Miller was the first African American to receive the Navy Cross. Here is just one of the many incredible examples of Doris’ courage according to a story by the San Diego Community Newspaper Group : Doris was serving on the USS West Virginia (BB-48) when the Japanese attacked Pearl Harbor on December 7, 1941. He was carrying wounded sailors to places of greater safety when he was ordered to aid the mortally wounded captain of the ship. He subsequently manned a .50 caliber Browning anti-aircraft machine gun until he ran out of ammunition and was ordered to abandon ship. Doris continued to serve with courage but when a torpedo struck the ship that he was serving on almost a year later, he was listed as missing and was officially presumed dead on Nov. 25, 1944.

Honored to meet Doris Miller’s grandnephews, Thomas Bledsoe and Leroy Ellis III

It was my privilege to meet Doris’ grandnephews from Waco, Texas, as we humbly remembered the sacrifice of their great-uncle and all of the heroic men and women who laid down their lives to in defense of our great nation and our freedoms. Read more about Doris at https://dorismillermemorial.org/doris-story/ .

New Flagpole at the Pine Valley Bible Conference Center

Randy Rebold, Executive Director of the Pine Valley Bible Conference Center in Pine Valley, recently set out to raise funds for a new flagpole to honor the country that guarantees every citizen the unique freedom we enjoy. He accomplished his mission, and the new flagpole is 40 feet tall and has built-in LED lighting shooting downward from the gold ball atop of the pole. I saw the flagpole myself earlier this month and the official opening ceremony, which was also attended by Andrew Hayes of Team Jones, took place the day after Flag Day and was attended by nearly 150 citizens.

Randy has been an incredible mentor in my life, and I respect him for sharing his love for our country with people who visit the Pine Valley Bible Conference Center.

Nonprofit of the Year

In partnership with CalNonprofits, the California State Legislature celebrated nonprofit organizations from across the state this month. Senate District 38’s nonprofit of the year is the Santee Santas Foundation. The organization is known for its annual holiday children’s toy and food drive focused on bringing the Christmas spirit to some 300 needy families in the community. The Santee Santas Foundation’s senior outreach program ensures seniors who are living alone or in senior care facilities are not forgotten over the holidays.

Tonya and her all-star, all-volunteer team at the Santee Santas Foundation has become one of the most recognized, respected, and appreciated nonprofit organizations in our community. They embody the spirit of Christmas by bringing an entire community together each year to deliver joy and fellowship to hundreds of children and seniors in need. Thank you, Tonya for traveling to Sacramento to represent our fantastic community.

Santee Santas Foundation President Tonya Hendrix traveled to Sacramento earlier this month to celebrate California Nonprofits Day with other fantastic organizations from throughout the state.

Taxpayers' Bill of Rights Annual Meeting

The California Department of Tax and Fee Administration (CDTFA) is holding a 2019 Taxpayer’s Bill of Rights Meeting to hear from you. As a taxpayer, your voice matters to the government and I’d like you to consider sharing your opinion so that we can make our government more accountable together.

The Taxpayers' Rights Advocate Office explains that “These meetings give you the opportunity to present your ideas, concerns, and recommendations regarding legislation, the quality of agency services, and other issues related to the CDTFA’s administration of its tax programs; including sales and use taxes, environmental fees, fuel taxes, and excise taxes.”

Though the meeting is in Sacramento on July 25, you can submit your opinions to them by mail at Taxpayers’ Rights Advocate Office: PO Box 942879, Sacramento, CA 94279-0070.

Or you can also call to submit your comments. The CDTFA’s toll-free hotline number is 1-888-324-2798. Don’t hesitate to reach out to me if you would like assistance with any issues regarding this or other state agencies.

Are you kidding me? – Judged by a Felon

In my latest Are You Kidding Me? video, I talk about Senate Bill 310 that would allow convicted felons to automatically qualify as trial jurors. To pass a new law allowing every single felon to serve on juries, whether or not they have completed their sentence, parole or probation, is the wrong way to proceed.

Convicted felons can already petition the court for a certificate of rehabilitation after three years to establish civil and political rights. I support this. Once your civil rights have been restored, you should be able to serve on a jury.

SB 310 has passed the Senate (on a party-line 27-10 vote) and is now waiting to be heard in the Assembly Appropriations Committee.

In Case You Missed It

Poway News Chieftain: Democrats try for new taxes

East County Californian: Jones’ measure to designate May as Motorcycle Awareness Month passes Senate

KUSI News: California State Senator Brian Jones on revised state budget

North County Daily Star: Cost and Taxes in the Green Economy

East County Gazette: Berlin Dixon (Page 2)

Escondido Times-Advocate: Keeping up with Jones: The senator opens a new office in Escondido

San Diego Union-Tribune: Home of Guiding Hands, Santee Santas get local ‘Nonprofit of the Year’ nods

Congressional Sportsmen’s Foundation: California Establishes New Caucus Leadership

East County Community Times: East County Chamber First Friday Breakfast and Santee Santas Foundation (Pages 1, 2, and 10)

back to top

Capitol Office

1021 O Street, Room 7640 Sacramento, CA 95814 Phone: (916) 651-4040 Fax: (916) 651-4940

Scripps Ranch Office

10650 Treena Street #110 San Diego, CA 92131 Phone: (858) 547-3818

Escondido Office

720 N. Broadway, Suite 110 Escondido, CA 92025 Phone: (760) 796-4655

facebook Facebook

twitter Twitter

instagram Instagram

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

Home

About Brian Biography

Biography

Legislation My Legislation Committees Bill Search

My Legislation

Committees

Bill Search

Newsroom Releases/Editorials In The News Audio/Video Are You Kidding Me? Photos Media Kit

Releases/Editorials

In The News

Audio/Video

Are You Kidding Me?

Photos

Media Kit

Contact Me Certificate Request District Internship Program District Map E-mail the Senator Legislative Proposal My Offices Subscribe to the Mailing List

Certificate Request

District Internship Program

District Map

E-mail the Senator

Legislative Proposal

My Offices

Subscribe to the Mailing List

Senator Jones Newsletter: June 2019

More News

ICYMI

View All

Breadcrumb

Aug 6
California Republicans’ Growing Impact on Social Media
Jul 16
Leader Jones Stands on Steps of the Capitol Opposing the Anti-Charter School Bill
Jul 16
AB 84 Charter Schools Press Conference
Jul 15
Leader Jones Demands Accountability on Dangerous Sexually Violent Predator Program

Jun 17
2025
$8-a-gallon gas? Senate Minority Leader Brian W. Jones requests audit of gas price hikes
Jun 9
2025
Nixed bill could have prevented LA unrest, California minority leader says
Jun 8
2025
California lawmaker warns Menendez brothers' case is driving return of bill to release thousands of killers
Jun 3
2025
Ramona nonprofit, resident recognized with Senate District 40 awards