Senator Shannon Grove (R-Bakersfield) reacted strongly to today’s Executive Order by Governor Newsom to ban new fracking permits by 2024 and his proposal to end all oil extraction by 2045.  The fracking permit ban will have a devastating effect on the state’s economy and jobs, and our energy independence. The impact will be felt especially hard in the Central Valley, where almost all California’s oil and gas are produced.

Currently, California produces 460,000 barrels of oil a day, but imports three times that amount from foreign countries. In fact, the state consumes over 40 million gallons of gas and 10 million gallons of diesel a day as families travel to work, school and other daily activities.

“California’s oil and gas consumption has only been reduced by a miniscule amount in over 30 years. For the Governor to destroy these good paying jobs and import oil from countries with abysmal human rights and environmental records is completely irresponsible,” said Senator Grove.

In the last 20 years California’s foreign oil imports have tripled and the Governor’s ban on new fracking permits will only cause more reliance on oil and gas imports from foreign countries.

The state boasts some of the most stringent environmental regulations in the world, yet when oil and gas is imported from foreign countries such as Saudi Arabia, Ecuador, Columbia and Iraq their standards are nearly non-existent.

Just a century ago, California was the top oil contributing state in the nation, at one time producing 40% of all oil in the country. Now California is down to a fraction of what it once produced and production is steadily declining. Still, the industry supports more than 350,000 good paying jobs in the state.  Governor Newsom’s termination of new fracking permits in the state will force tens of thousands of workers into the unemployment lines and make it harder for families to pay their bills.

Californians are not lowering their oil and gas consumption at a rate that can sustain using alternative energy. The ban on new fracking permits will cause more reliance on dirty foreign oil, hurt the economy and kill thousands of jobs across the state.

Capitol Office

1021 O Street, Room 7150 Sacramento, CA 95814 Phone: (916) 651-4012 Fax: (916) 651-4916

Bakersfield Office

5701 Truxtun Ave., Suite 150 Bakersfield, CA 93309 Phone: (661) 323-0443 Fax: (661) 323-0446

Fresno Office

567 W. Shaw Ave., Suite A-3 Fresno, CA 93704 Phone:  559-243-8580

facebook Facebook

twitter Twitter

instagram Instagram

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

Home

About Shannon Biography Committees 12th Senate District Map

Biography

Committees

12th Senate District Map

Legislation My Legislation Bill Search Submit a Legislative Proposal

My Legislation

Bill Search

Submit a Legislative Proposal

Newsroom Releases / Editorials Photos

Releases / Editorials

Photos

Resources California Senate Fellows Program Coronavirus Information Education Register to Vote Unclaimed Property Veteran Resources

California Senate Fellows Program

Coronavirus Information

Education

Register to Vote

Unclaimed Property

Veteran Resources

Contact me My Offices E-mail the Senator Subscribe

My Offices

E-mail the Senator

Subscribe

Senator Shannon Grove Issues Statement on the Governor’s Announcement to Stop New Fracking Permits

More News

View All

Breadcrumb

Aug 29
Senator Shannon Grove Celebrates Advancement of Key Bills for Special Education and Rural Healthcare, Expresses Disappointment Over Scrapping of Leno’s Law
Aug 27
VIDEO: Celebrity advocate Paris Hilton calls for passage of child protection measure ahead of key vote
Aug 25
Senator Shannon Grove and Assemblyman David Tangipa  Honor Retired NFL Quarterback, Derek Carr
Aug 21
Senator Shannon Grove opposes Democrats' attempt to override the will of California voters