Today, Senator Shannon Grove ( R-Bakersfield ) announced the introduction of Senate Bill 311 (SB 311) , legislation aimed at improving health and safety in California’s women’s correctional facilities. The bill requires the California Department of Corrections and Rehabilitation (CDCR) to establish secure, separate housing units for transgender women within women’s prisons, balancing the needs of transgender inmates with the safety and security of biological women.

SB 311 addresses growing concerns about current housing policies in women’s prisons, where shared intimate spaces—like sleeping quarters and restrooms—have raised issues of discomfort and security risks for female inmates. The legislation gives CDCR the authority to establish secure facilities at the California Institution for Women and the Central California Women’s Facility to house transgender women. This would ensure their individual needs are met while protecting the privacy and safety of biological women. Additionally, the bill prohibits transgender inmates—convicted of certain sexual offenses under the Sex Offender Registration Act from being housed in women’s prisons.

“SB 311 is a direct response to the alarming reality that women are being assaulted and raped in our California women’s prisons,” said Senator Shannon Grove. “These bad actors are taking advantage of a policy that was intended to protect transgender inmates but is instead allowing any man to be transferred to a women’s facility simply by checking a box. By establishing secure housing, we can stop these horrific attacks, protect the most vulnerable, and restore a sense of security for women behind bars.”

The measure has garnered support from Woman II Woman, a key sponsor of the legislation. “We are proud to stand behind SB 311, which takes a thoughtful and balanced approach to a complex issue,” said Amie Ichikawa, Founder of Woman II Woman . “This bill ensures that the safety and privacy of biological women are protected while providing transgender women with appropriate accommodations. It’s a step forward for fairness and security in our prisons.”

Under existing law, CDCR is already tasked with preventing sexual violence and promoting inmate safety, including through education and handbooks on sexual abuse in detention. SB 311 responds to reports of assaults, rapes and pregnancies among female inmates, and offers a clear framework to enhance prison safety.

Senator Grove emphasized that the legislation is a proactive step toward maintaining a secure and equitable environment in California’s women’s correctional facilities. “This is about protecting vulnerable populations on all sides and ensuring our prisons operate with both compassion and common sense,” she added.

SB 311 is now under consideration in the California State Legislature, with hearings expected in the coming weeks.

Capitol Office

1021 O Street, Room 7150 Sacramento, CA 95814 Phone: (916) 651-4012 Fax: (916) 651-4916

Bakersfield Office

5701 Truxtun Ave., Suite 150 Bakersfield, CA 93309 Phone: (661) 323-0443 Fax: (661) 323-0446

Fresno Office

567 W. Shaw Ave., Suite A-3 Fresno, CA 93704 Phone:  559-243-8580

facebook Facebook

twitter Twitter

instagram Instagram

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

Home

About Shannon Biography Committees 12th Senate District Map

Biography

Committees

12th Senate District Map

Legislation My Legislation Bill Search Submit a Legislative Proposal

My Legislation

Bill Search

Submit a Legislative Proposal

Newsroom Releases / Editorials Photos

Releases / Editorials

Photos

Resources California Senate Fellows Program Coronavirus Information Education Register to Vote Unclaimed Property Veteran Resources

California Senate Fellows Program

Coronavirus Information

Education

Register to Vote

Unclaimed Property

Veteran Resources

Contact me My Offices E-mail the Senator Subscribe

My Offices

E-mail the Senator

Subscribe

Senator Shannon Grove Announces Incarcerated Women’s Protection Measure

More News

View All

Breadcrumb

Aug 29
Senator Shannon Grove Celebrates Advancement of Key Bills for Special Education and Rural Healthcare, Expresses Disappointment Over Scrapping of Leno’s Law
Aug 27
VIDEO: Celebrity advocate Paris Hilton calls for passage of child protection measure ahead of key vote
Aug 25
Senator Shannon Grove and Assemblyman David Tangipa  Honor Retired NFL Quarterback, Derek Carr
Aug 21
Senator Shannon Grove opposes Democrats' attempt to override the will of California voters