Senator Tony Strickland ( R-Huntington Beach) joined Republican lawmakers, Yolo County District Attorney Jeff Reisig, and all supporters who helped pass Proposition 36 to once again urge Governor Newsom to allocate critical funding for it. The anti-crime initiative passed by nearly 70% in November 2024, including counties in the traditionally liberal San Francisco Bay Area.

So far, the governor has committed zero dollars to the anti-crime initiative, and he has until the end of the month when he signs a state budget to show that he is serious about restoring public safety and upholding the will of the voters.

Senator Strickland released the following statement:

“The most essential role of government is public safety, and Governor Newsom must uphold the wishes of the voters as their message is clear. They want to restore the rule of law and make crime illegal again in California.

“I can’t recall the last initiative that passed by nearly 70% in all 58 counties. From Kern and Lassen to Marin and San Francisco, conservatives and liberals spoke with a single voice. Failing to fully fund Prop. 36 would betray Republicans, Democrats, independents, and crime victims who stood up for its passage.”

Background on Senator Strickland’s request for funding on Prop. 36:

Prior to the governor releasing his May Revision, Senator Strickland urged him to fund Prop. 36, stating it was a ‘ golden opportunity ’ for the governor to do the right thing.

In addition, in an Op-ed published in California’s McClatchy Newspapers back in May, Senator Strickland urged Governor Newsom and Democrat lawmakers to fund Prop. 36. Click HERE to read his entire Op-ed.

Capitol:

District Office:

301 Main Street, Suite 212 Huntington Beach, CA 92648 (714) 374-4000

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

<d

Home

About Tony Biography Committees

Biography

Committees

Newsroom Releases / Opinions Newsletters Audio / Video Photos

Releases / Opinions

Newsletters

Audio / Video

Photos

Contact Me District Map My Offices Scheduling Requests

District Map

My Offices

Scheduling Requests

Senator Strickland: Newsom insults voters as he ignores critical funding for anti-crime initiative

Breadcrumb