SACRAMENTO – Senate Republican Leader Shannon Grove ( R-Bakersfield ) has the honor of recognizing two outstanding organizations as California’s Senate District 16 Non-Profits of the Year.  Both the Bakersfield Pregnancy Center and the Boys and Girls Club of the Hi-Desert are recognized for their service, long-term commitment, and leadership in serving the communities of Bakersfield and the Morongo Basin in the Hi-Desert.

Senator Grove released the following statement:

“Despite these unprecedented times, non-profits are working far beyond their usual capacity to take care of the needs of our communities. The Bakersfield Pregnancy Center and the Boys and Girls Club of the Hi-Desert are among the many whose commitments to serving our communities remain steadfast and strong. Both organizations serve different needs -  one serves to protect the sanctity of life and the other serves to help our youth grow up to be productive citizens of our community. Please join me in congratulating these non-profits and celebrating the service of all non-profits throughout our district,” said Senate Republican Leader Shannon Grove .

“The Bakersfield Pregnancy Center is so very honored to be recognized by Senator Grove as the Non-Profit of the Year for Senate District 16. For 35 years, our organization has served individuals in Kern County with life-affirming, free licensed medical services related to pregnancy and sexual health. To date, our caring staff has served over 40,000 clients with compassion, help, and hope. Senator Grove has exemplified her own personal commitment and speaks with hope for a better future for Kern County citizens. We are so grateful for her leadership and to receive this recognition,” said Erin Rogers, Executive Director of the Bakersfield Pregnancy Center .

"We are honored to receive such a prestigious award. We have served the Morongo Basin for the past 37 years, impacting the lives of young ones and their families to provide resources for our youth to become productive, caring, and responsible citizens in our community and to the nation. Our mission is to create a beautiful extended family atmosphere through a lifetime of commitment from our wonderful community which is why we often serve generations of families and are thankful for their love and support. Thank you for taking the time to shine a light on our impact,” said Maxine Cuadro, Chief Executive Officer of the Boys & Girls Club of the Hi-Desert .

Capitol Office

1021 O Street, Room 7150 Sacramento, CA 95814 Phone: (916) 651-4012 Fax: (916) 651-4916

Bakersfield Office

5701 Truxtun Ave., Suite 150 Bakersfield, CA 93309 Phone: (661) 323-0443 Fax: (661) 323-0446

Fresno Office

567 W. Shaw Ave., Suite A-3 Fresno, CA 93704 Phone:  559-243-8580

facebook Facebook

twitter Twitter

instagram Instagram

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

Home

About Shannon Biography Committees 12th Senate District Map

Biography

Committees

12th Senate District Map

Legislation My Legislation Bill Search Submit a Legislative Proposal

My Legislation

Bill Search

Submit a Legislative Proposal

Newsroom Releases / Editorials Photos

Releases / Editorials

Photos

Resources California Senate Fellows Program Coronavirus Information Education Register to Vote Unclaimed Property Veteran Resources

California Senate Fellows Program

Coronavirus Information

Education

Register to Vote

Unclaimed Property

Veteran Resources

Contact me My Offices E-mail the Senator Subscribe

My Offices

E-mail the Senator

Subscribe

Senator Grove Announces Senate District 16 Non-profits of the Year

More News

View All

Breadcrumb

Aug 29
Senator Shannon Grove Celebrates Advancement of Key Bills for Special Education and Rural Healthcare, Expresses Disappointment Over Scrapping of Leno’s Law
Aug 27
VIDEO: Celebrity advocate Paris Hilton calls for passage of child protection measure ahead of key vote
Aug 25
Senator Shannon Grove and Assemblyman David Tangipa  Honor Retired NFL Quarterback, Derek Carr
Aug 21
Senator Shannon Grove opposes Democrats' attempt to override the will of California voters