Senator Grove and TV icon Jay Leno at the press conference to rev up support for SB 712 prior to the Senate Transportation Committee hearing. Photo courtesy: California State Senate

T oday, S enator Shannon Grove ( R–Bakersfield) proudly announced that Senate Bill 712, also known as Leno’s Law , has passed out of the Senate Transportation Committee with bipartisan support. SB 712 removes outdated smog check requirements for classic vehicles that are 35 model years or older, ensuring these icons of California’s automotive history remain on the road and part of our cultural identity.

“I’m thrilled to see SB 712 advance with the support of my colleagues,” said Senator Grove . “These classic cars aren’t just hobby vehicles—they represent generations of craftsmanship, culture, and community pride. With this bill, we’re protecting small businesses, empowering car enthusiasts, and preserving a vital piece of California’s heritage.”

The bill is sponsored by Jay Leno , legendary comedian and lifelong automotive collector, who has been a vocal advocate for updating smog regulations to reflect the minimal impact of true collector vehicles.

“California helped invent car culture—from lowriders in East L.A. to muscle cars in the Central Valley. These cars tell the story,” said Jay Leno. “SB 712 is about keeping that story alive. These vehicles are driven occasionally, not daily, and it just makes sense to treat them differently. I’m proud to be working with Senator Grove, and I thank the committee for recognizing the importance of preserving our automotive legacy.”

SB 712 also has the strong support of Senator Dave Cortese (D–San Jose) , Chair of the Senate Transportation Committee, who co-authored the bill.

“These cars are rarely on the road, meticulously maintained, and represent a very small fraction of California's total vehicle emissions. This is a long-overdue, common-sense law that both protects hobbyists and collectors and continues to safeguard our environment. I fully support 'Leno’s Law,” said Senator Dave Cortese.

The legislation comes at a time when collectors and small businesses face increasing regulatory and financial hurdles. California’s classic cars make up a tiny fraction of vehicles on the road but generate massive economic and cultural value. According to the Specialty Equipment Market Association (SEMA), California’s specialty automotive aftermarket industry supports over 149,000 jobs , contributes $40.44 billion to the state’s economy, and pays over $6.16 billion in state and local taxes.

“This bill ensures California remains a welcoming home for car culture—whether you’re restoring a ‘76 Trans Am, cruising in a lowrider, or just visiting your local classic car show,” added Grove. “We’re embracing the history, innovation, and pride of these collector cars.”

SB 712 now heads to the Senate Appropriations Committee for further consideration.

Capitol Office

1021 O Street, Room 7150 Sacramento, CA 95814 Phone: (916) 651-4012 Fax: (916) 651-4916

Bakersfield Office

5701 Truxtun Ave., Suite 150 Bakersfield, CA 93309 Phone: (661) 323-0443 Fax: (661) 323-0446

Fresno Office

567 W. Shaw Ave., Suite A-3 Fresno, CA 93704 Phone:  559-243-8580

facebook Facebook

twitter Twitter

instagram Instagram

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

Home

About Shannon Biography Committees 12th Senate District Map

Biography

Committees

12th Senate District Map

Legislation My Legislation Bill Search Submit a Legislative Proposal

My Legislation

Bill Search

Submit a Legislative Proposal

Newsroom Releases / Editorials Photos

Releases / Editorials

Photos

Resources California Senate Fellows Program Coronavirus Information Education Register to Vote Unclaimed Property Veteran Resources

California Senate Fellows Program

Coronavirus Information

Education

Register to Vote

Unclaimed Property

Veteran Resources

Contact me My Offices E-mail the Senator Subscribe

My Offices

E-mail the Senator

Subscribe

Senator Grove Announces Senate Transportation Committee Passage of “Leno’s Law” to Protect Classic Cars

More News

View All

Breadcrumb

Aug 29
Senator Shannon Grove Celebrates Advancement of Key Bills for Special Education and Rural Healthcare, Expresses Disappointment Over Scrapping of Leno’s Law
Aug 27
VIDEO: Celebrity advocate Paris Hilton calls for passage of child protection measure ahead of key vote
Aug 25
Senator Shannon Grove and Assemblyman David Tangipa  Honor Retired NFL Quarterback, Derek Carr
Aug 21
Senator Shannon Grove opposes Democrats' attempt to override the will of California voters