Today, Senator Shannon Grove named Fresno County District Attorney Lisa Smittcamp as the 2023 Woman of the Year for the 12th Senate District. District Attorney Smittcamp was honored in a recognition ceremony during today’s Senate floor session in Sacramento.

“I am proud to honor Lisa Smittcamp for her tireless dedication to justice and for bringing awareness of critical issues that impact the Central Valley,” said Senator Shannon Grove. “Her efforts in educating communities across the state about the dangers of fentanyl have been crucial in the ongoing war against this deadly drug.”

“I am very honored to be selected as Senator Grove’s 2023 Woman of the Year,” said District Attorney Lisa Smittcamp. “It is my privilege to accept this award today on the Senate Floor. It has been my distinct honor to promote public safety and to seek justice on behalf of many of Senator Grove’s constituents and all the residents of Fresno County as their elected District Attorney.”

Lisa A. Smittcamp was elected as the Fresno County District Attorney in June 2014 with the overwhelming support of local law enforcement and from the prosecutors and investigators in her office. She was sworn into office in January 2015, after being a respected fixture in the Central Valley’s legal community for over twenty years. This January marked the beginning of Smittcamp’s third term. She is the second female to be the elected District Attorney in Fresno County.

DA Smittcamp is known at the Fresno County courthouse for her keen sense of justice and outstanding advocacy skills. She has successfully prosecuted some of Fresno County’s most dangerous criminals – murderers, rapists, domestic violence offenders and child molesters. During her time as a Deputy DA, she prosecuted many gang members and career criminals under California’s Three Strikes Law, resulting in life prison terms.

In addition to her other duties, DA Smittcamp is the Chairwoman of the Policy and Direction Team of the Multi-Agency Gang Enforcement Consortium (M.A.G.E.C.), a member of the Fresno-Madera Police Chief’s Association, the Victim Offender Reconciliation Program (VORP) Advisory Board, the Community Corrections Partnership (CCP) Committee, the Fresno County Local Justice Coordinating Committee, and the Juvenile Justice Realignment Committee.

She also serves the Fresno community as a member of many non-profit organizations. She is a member of the Rotary Club of Fresno. She sits on the Board of Directors of Valley Children’s Hospital, and the Board of Directors of Convicts for Christ. DA Smittcamp is the Vice President of the Board of Trustees of AMOR (the Alliance for Medical Outreach and Relief) that recently built a health and community center in Mendota.

DA Smittcamp resides in Fresno County and is the proud mother of two children.

To download the photo of Senator Grove and DA Smittcamp:

https://www.dropbox.com/s/s4feubkm1bf9d7d/WOTY%202023.jpg?dl=0

Capitol Office

1021 O Street, Room 7150 Sacramento, CA 95814 Phone: (916) 651-4012 Fax: (916) 651-4916

Bakersfield Office

5701 Truxtun Ave., Suite 150 Bakersfield, CA 93309 Phone: (661) 323-0443 Fax: (661) 323-0446

Fresno Office

567 W. Shaw Ave., Suite A-3 Fresno, CA 93704 Phone:  559-243-8580

facebook Facebook

twitter Twitter

instagram Instagram

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

Home

About Shannon Biography Committees 12th Senate District Map

Biography

Committees

12th Senate District Map

Legislation My Legislation Bill Search Submit a Legislative Proposal

My Legislation

Bill Search

Submit a Legislative Proposal

Newsroom Releases / Editorials Photos

Releases / Editorials

Photos

Resources California Senate Fellows Program Coronavirus Information Education Register to Vote Unclaimed Property Veteran Resources

California Senate Fellows Program

Coronavirus Information

Education

Register to Vote

Unclaimed Property

Veteran Resources

Contact me My Offices E-mail the Senator Subscribe

My Offices

E-mail the Senator

Subscribe

Senator Grove Recognizes Fresno District Attorney Lisa Smittcamp as Woman of the Year

More News

View All

Breadcrumb

Aug 29
Senator Shannon Grove Celebrates Advancement of Key Bills for Special Education and Rural Healthcare, Expresses Disappointment Over Scrapping of Leno’s Law
Aug 27
VIDEO: Celebrity advocate Paris Hilton calls for passage of child protection measure ahead of key vote
Aug 25
Senator Shannon Grove and Assemblyman David Tangipa  Honor Retired NFL Quarterback, Derek Carr
Aug 21
Senator Shannon Grove opposes Democrats' attempt to override the will of California voters