Senator Rosilicie Ochoa Bogh
(R-Yucaipa) announced her legislation,
Senate Bill 336
, was signed into law by the Governor. This bill ensures local communities are aware of any changes to the state or local public health orders by requiring them to be posted to relevant websites and distributed via email.
"I am thrilled the Governor agreed that we must create a viable notification structure to ensure our local communities and businesses are aware of all new public health orders in a timely manner," said
Senator Ochoa Bogh
.
"During the pandemic, small businesses have struggled to keep up with rapidly changing public health orders. We must make sure struggling employers are not left scrambling to locate, review and implement new health orders that have already been put in place and may significantly impact their daily operations. It is imperative now more than ever the Legislature and the Governor discuss ways to make sure communities are on the same page, SB 336 is a major step in that direction.”
Current law authorizes California's Department of Public Health (CDPH) to take necessary measures to study and prevent the spread of a communicable disease. Existing law also requires local health officers (LHO) to take similar steps to prevent the spread of the disease. Under existing law, these measures can be made effective immediately and have the force of law.
SB 336 requires CDPH and LHO to publish new COVID-19 measures on their respective websites to ensure that our communities and any impacted industries are aware of and prepared to make any required changes. It also requires CDPH and LHO to create a distribution list for those that would like to sign up for notifications about any change in requirements.
SB 336 would only be effective for the duration of this current public health crisis as caused by COVID-19, while also creating a communication frame work for any future public health crisis. It took effect immediately upon the Governor’s approval.
The following statements were made in support of Senator Ochoa Bogh’s bill:
“California’s business community appreciates SB 336’s common sense approach to improving transparency and clarity for California’s business community – and we’re glad to see it signed into law.” -
Rob Moutrie, Policy Advocate for the California Chamber of Commerce.

Capitol Office

1021 O Street, Room 7220 Sacramento, CA 95814 Phone: (916) 651-4019 Fax: (916) 651-4919

Redlands Office

1758 Orange Tree Lane, Suite B Redlands, CA 92374 Phone: (909) 335-0271 Fax: (909) 335-0282

facebook Facebook

twitter Twitter

instagram Instagram

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

Home

About Rosilicie My Legislation Current Legislation Legislative Accomplishments 2024 Legislative Accomplishments 2023 Legislative Accomplishments 2022-21 Bill Search Committees Biography

My Legislation Current Legislation Legislative Accomplishments 2024 Legislative Accomplishments 2023 Legislative Accomplishments 2022-21 Bill Search

Current Legislation

Legislative Accomplishments 2024

Legislative Accomplishments 2023

Legislative Accomplishments 2022-21

Bill Search

Committees

Biography

District District Map Virtual Insurance Town Hall Virtual PSPS Town Hall Wildfire Resources

District Map

Virtual Insurance Town Hall

Virtual PSPS Town Hall

Wildfire Resources

Newsroom Releases/Editorials

Releases/Editorials

Contact Me Constituent Services E-mail the Senator Look Ahead Mobile Office Hours My Offices State Agencies Subscribe

Constituent Services

E-mail the Senator

Look Ahead

Mobile Office Hours

My Offices

State Agencies

Subscribe

Senator Ochoa Bogh’s Bill to Help Notify Businesses of New Public Health Order Becomes Law

Breadcrumb