Senator Rosilicie Ochoa Bogh (R–Yucaipa) has introduced Senate Bill 745 , legislation that directs the California Department of Education to develop a curriculum guide and resources for a one-year course in American government and civics, giving students more time to understand how government works, why their voice matters, and how to become informed and engaged citizens.

Additionally, this bill requires school districts participating in the State Seal of Civic Engagement (SSCE) to deem the completion of a one-year course in American government and civics as satisfying a specified criteria for receiving the SSCE, which will help students connect classroom learning to real-world civic life.

“Democracy only works if we understand how to participate in it,” said Senator Ochoa Bogh. “Our kids are inheriting a complicated world, and we owe it to them—and to our country—to equip them with the tools to lead, question, vote, and serve. This bill is about building that foundation early, with pride and purpose.”

SB 745 is especially timely. Civic literacy is alarmingly low, with over 70% of Americans unable to name the three branches of government. In California, voter turnout among 18- to 24-year-olds continues to lag behind national averages. The bill offers a practical solution: more classroom time focused on the rights and responsibilities of citizenship.

“A civically engaged and educated society has always been a critical component of a healthy democracy,” said Senator Ben Allen (D-Santa Monica), a joint author of SB 745. “I am grateful for Senator Ochoa Bogh’s leadership on the bipartisan SB 745 that will lay the foundation for greater civic engagement from our younger generations that will stay with them into adulthood.”

"Civic education provides the foundation for students' understanding of our democracy. Whether engaging with our democracy, participating in local decision-making, or discussing political and civic topics, students’ high school government course shapes the outcomes of those experiences,” said Julia Chambers of America Undivided. “America Undivided is proud to sponsor Senate Bill 745, and is deeply grateful to Senator Ochoa Bogh and Senator Ben Allen for their support on this issue. As young people, we recognize the importance of understanding the institutions that govern us, the laws that shape our society, and the foundations of our democracy. Government plays a crucial role in our daily lives, and students deserve comprehensive, in-depth instruction on all levels of government that affect their lives."

The curriculum would emphasize everything from how local city councils work to how bills move through Congress—and how social media impacts political awareness.

Capitol Office

1021 O Street, Room 7220 Sacramento, CA 95814 Phone: (916) 651-4019 Fax: (916) 651-4919

Redlands Office

1758 Orange Tree Lane, Suite B Redlands, CA 92374 Phone: (909) 335-0271 Fax: (909) 335-0282

facebook Facebook

twitter Twitter

instagram Instagram

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

Home

About Rosilicie My Legislation Current Legislation Legislative Accomplishments 2024 Legislative Accomplishments 2023 Legislative Accomplishments 2022-21 Bill Search Committees Biography

My Legislation Current Legislation Legislative Accomplishments 2024 Legislative Accomplishments 2023 Legislative Accomplishments 2022-21 Bill Search

Current Legislation

Legislative Accomplishments 2024

Legislative Accomplishments 2023

Legislative Accomplishments 2022-21

Bill Search

Committees

Biography

District District Map Virtual Insurance Town Hall Virtual PSPS Town Hall Wildfire Resources

District Map

Virtual Insurance Town Hall

Virtual PSPS Town Hall

Wildfire Resources

Newsroom Releases/Editorials

Releases/Editorials

Contact Me Constituent Services E-mail the Senator Look Ahead Mobile Office Hours My Offices State Agencies Subscribe

Constituent Services

E-mail the Senator

Look Ahead

Mobile Office Hours

My Offices

State Agencies

Subscribe

Senator Ochoa Bogh Champions Civics Education to Equip the Next Generation of American Leaders

Breadcrumb