Today, Senator Tony Strickland ( R-Huntington Beach ) announced key committee appointments, including as vice chair of the Senate Transportation Committee and vice chair of the Senate Labor, Public Employment and Retirement Committee. He also has been appointed to four other committees.

“Hardworking families in California shouldn’t have to choose between a gallon of gas and a gallon of milk in this state because of high regulatory and tax burdens,” said Sen. Strickland, the newly announced vice chair of the Senate Transportation Committee . “I am eager to work with my colleagues on solutions to restore our state’s prosperity. We need to invest in our crumbling infrastructure and stop wasting hardworking families’ tax dollars. Let’s eliminate the High-Speed Rail and lower gas taxes for all Californians.”

Sen. Strickland was also appointed to the Senate Energy, Utilities and Communications Committee, the Senate Banking and Financial Institutions Committee, and the Senate Business, Professions and Economic Development Committee.

“Each of these committees plays a role in shaping the cost of living for Californians,” said Sen. Strickland . “We need to invest in all forms of energy and achieve energy independence. This will help put people back to work and grow our economy.”

Additionally, Sen. Strickland was named a member of the Senate Transportation Subcommittee on the LOSSAN Rail Corridor Resiliency. Running right through Orange County, the LOSSAN Corridor connects Los Angeles, San Diego, and San Luis Obispo.

Capitol:

District Office:

301 Main Street, Suite 212 Huntington Beach, CA 92648 (714) 374-4000

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

<d

Home

About Tony Biography Committees

Biography

Committees

Newsroom Releases / Opinions Newsletters Audio / Video Photos

Releases / Opinions

Newsletters

Audio / Video

Photos

Contact Me District Map My Offices Scheduling Requests

District Map

My Offices

Scheduling Requests

Senator Strickland appointed to key committees, including two vice chair positions

Breadcrumb