This week, Senator Ochoa Bogh ( R-Yucaipa) joined all California Legislative Republicans to call on the U.S. Department of Energy to intervene against state and local efforts to ban natural gas, which drive up costs and limit consumer choice. In a letter sent to Energy Secretary Chris Wright , Ochoa Bogh urged the federal government to block regulations that would effectively prohibit Californians from purchasing or installing gas appliances in their homes.

“The recent 9-day power outage in Grand Terrace in my senate district made it clear—Californians need more energy options, not fewer,” said Senator Ochoa Bogh . “Families relying solely on electric heating faced severe hardships, and until the state strengthens its power grid, eliminating natural gas appliances is both irresponsible and out of touch with the needs of everyday people.”

Residents of the Blue Mountain Senior Apartment building in Grand Terrace were left without power for nine days after Southern California Edison implemented a Public Safety Power Shutoff (PSPS). This temporary power outage was initiated to prevent the electric system from becoming a potential source of ignition during hazardous weather conditions.

“The proposed mandate to transition all households to electric-only utilities would place an overwhelming financial burden on residents, exacerbating the housing crisis and driving up living costs. Many families simply cannot afford this shift, and it will likely lead to a black market for out-of-state appliances,” said Grand Terrace Mayor, Bill Hussey . “Beyond financial concerns, limiting homes to a single power source is a dangerous and impractical policy—especially during disasters. During recent power outages, communities like mine, Grand Terrace, saw firsthand the critical role of natural gas. Homes and senior apartments that relied solely on electricity suffered the most, leaving residents without heat, the ability to cook, or even basic hygiene for days. Seniors went without bathing for over a week, while neighbors with gas-powered utilities opened their homes to help."

Democrat-led state agencies and local governments have pushed a series of all-electric mandates, despite federal law preempting such restrictions. More than 60 cities and counties in California have adopted bans on natural gas appliances or implemented zero-emission appliance requirements. Even after a recent federal court ruling struck down Berkeley’s natural gas ban, many of these policies remain in effect, creating uncertainty and driving up costs for consumers, businesses and manufacturers.

All-electric mandates will have an outsize impact in California, where electricity rates are 92% higher than the national average . Additionally, banning gas appliances would force homes and businesses to rely solely on an increasingly strained electrical grid, raising costs and reducing reliability.

“Removing this affordable, reliable energy source is not just impractical; it’s dangerous. Meanwhile, wildfires caused by electric infrastructure have done far more environmental damage than natural gas emissions. I invite decision-makers to visit Grand Terrace and experience what it’s like to live without power. Instead of pushing policies that make life harder for Californians, let’s ensure this remains the Golden State—not a state of crisis. I urge leaders to reject any mandate that eliminates natural gas as an option for households,” added Mayor Hussey .

“We must diversify our energy sources to ensure affordability and reliability. I stand with my Republican colleagues and city leaders in urging the U.S. Department of Energy to protect consumer choice and prevent policies that further burden California families,” concluded Senator Ochoa Bogh .

The letter, signed by all legislative Republicans, calls on the Department of Energy to evaluate these policies and act to overturn the gas appliance bans whenever possible.

﻿ The full letter is available HERE .

Capitol Office

1021 O Street, Room 7220 Sacramento, CA 95814 Phone: (916) 651-4019 Fax: (916) 651-4919

Redlands Office

1758 Orange Tree Lane, Suite B Redlands, CA 92374 Phone: (909) 335-0271 Fax: (909) 335-0282

facebook Facebook

twitter Twitter

instagram Instagram

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

Home

About Rosilicie My Legislation Current Legislation Legislative Accomplishments 2024 Legislative Accomplishments 2023 Legislative Accomplishments 2022-21 Bill Search Committees Biography

My Legislation Current Legislation Legislative Accomplishments 2024 Legislative Accomplishments 2023 Legislative Accomplishments 2022-21 Bill Search

Current Legislation

Legislative Accomplishments 2024

Legislative Accomplishments 2023

Legislative Accomplishments 2022-21

Bill Search

Committees

Biography

District District Map Virtual Insurance Town Hall Virtual PSPS Town Hall Wildfire Resources

District Map

Virtual Insurance Town Hall

Virtual PSPS Town Hall

Wildfire Resources

Newsroom Releases/Editorials

Releases/Editorials

Contact Me Constituent Services E-mail the Senator Look Ahead Mobile Office Hours My Offices State Agencies Subscribe

Constituent Services

E-mail the Senator

Look Ahead

Mobile Office Hours

My Offices

State Agencies

Subscribe

Senator Ochoa Bogh urges federal action to protect energy affordability & consumer choice

Breadcrumb