Senate Republican Leader Shannon Grove ( R-Bakersfield) issued the following statement after House Speaker Nancy Pelosi announced that a deal has been reached on the United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement (USMCA):

“I commend Congressional leaders for moving forward and putting farmers and workers above politics. The agriculture industry is the foundation of the Golden State and we must do all we can to support our farmers, farm workers, ranchers, and agribusinesses. The USMCA is a 21st century trade agreement that will strengthen our economy as well as support our farmers and our small businesses,” said Senate Republican Leader Shannon Grove.

Yesterday, Senator Grove was one of 26 state leaders from across the United States who signed on to a letter urging Congressional leaders to pass the USMCA. Legislative leaders from 15 states signed on to the letter which was delivered to Congressional leaders including House Speaker Nancy Pelosi ( D-California ), House Republican Leader Kevin McCarthy ( R-California ), Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell ( R-Kentucky ) and Senate Minority Leader Charles Schumer ( D-New York ). A copy of the letter addressed to Congressional leaders can be found here .

Earlier this year, Senator Grove introduced Senate Joint Resolution 12 which requested the California State Legislature to support and urge Congress to approve the USMCA. SJR 12 passed out of the California State Senate with bipartisan support.

In July, the Fresno Bee published an op-Ed by Senator Grove which highlighted the importance of the USMCA. Click here to read the op-Ed.

Capitol Office

1021 O Street, Room 7150 Sacramento, CA 95814 Phone: (916) 651-4012 Fax: (916) 651-4916

Bakersfield Office

5701 Truxtun Ave., Suite 150 Bakersfield, CA 93309 Phone: (661) 323-0443 Fax: (661) 323-0446

Fresno Office

567 W. Shaw Ave., Suite A-3 Fresno, CA 93704 Phone:  559-243-8580

facebook Facebook

twitter Twitter

instagram Instagram

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

Home

About Shannon Biography Committees 12th Senate District Map

Biography

Committees

12th Senate District Map

Legislation My Legislation Bill Search Submit a Legislative Proposal

My Legislation

Bill Search

Submit a Legislative Proposal

Newsroom Releases / Editorials Photos

Releases / Editorials

Photos

Resources California Senate Fellows Program Coronavirus Information Education Register to Vote Unclaimed Property Veteran Resources

California Senate Fellows Program

Coronavirus Information

Education

Register to Vote

Unclaimed Property

Veteran Resources

Contact me My Offices E-mail the Senator Subscribe

My Offices

E-mail the Senator

Subscribe

Senate Republican Leader Grove Praises Movement on the USMCA

More News

View All

Breadcrumb

Aug 29
Senator Shannon Grove Celebrates Advancement of Key Bills for Special Education and Rural Healthcare, Expresses Disappointment Over Scrapping of Leno’s Law
Aug 27
VIDEO: Celebrity advocate Paris Hilton calls for passage of child protection measure ahead of key vote
Aug 25
Senator Shannon Grove and Assemblyman David Tangipa  Honor Retired NFL Quarterback, Derek Carr
Aug 21
Senator Shannon Grove opposes Democrats' attempt to override the will of California voters