SACRAMENTO – Today, the California State Senate passed Senate Joint Resolution 12 authored by Senate Republican Leader Shannon Grove ( R-Bakersfield ) with bipartisan support. SJR 12 supports the United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement (USMCA) and urges the U.S. Congress to approve it.

The North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) was established 25 years ago and has proven to be economically, culturally, and strategically beneficial for the U.S., Canada, and Mexico. Since then, trade with Canada and Mexico has nearly quadrupled to $1.3 trillion and the two countries purchased more than one-third of American merchandise exports. The USMCA is necessary because it will modernize and validate the current trade agreement among the three North American economic partners.

The USMCA will benefit California’s farmers, ranchers, and agribusinesses.

“Our farmers face uncertainty with Mother Nature, but there is no doubt their value to our country is vital as California’s agricultural industry is the largest in the nation. More than a third of the country's vegetables and two-thirds of the country's fruits and nuts are grown in the Golden State. It is no surprise that this industry is the foundation of California and we must do what we can to protect our farmers, ranchers, and agribusinesses.

“I am grateful that my colleagues in the Senate understand the value of strengthening our agricultural industry. As my Resolution makes its way to the California State Assembly, I hope it will continue to earn bipartisan support,” said Senate Republican Leader Shannon Grove.

The Fresno Bee published an Op-ed authored by Senator Grove about the USMCA. You can read the Op-ed here .

Capitol Office

1021 O Street, Room 7150 Sacramento, CA 95814 Phone: (916) 651-4012 Fax: (916) 651-4916

Bakersfield Office

5701 Truxtun Ave., Suite 150 Bakersfield, CA 93309 Phone: (661) 323-0443 Fax: (661) 323-0446

Fresno Office

567 W. Shaw Ave., Suite A-3 Fresno, CA 93704 Phone:  559-243-8580

facebook Facebook

twitter Twitter

instagram Instagram

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

Home

About Shannon Biography Committees 12th Senate District Map

Biography

Committees

12th Senate District Map

Legislation My Legislation Bill Search Submit a Legislative Proposal

My Legislation

Bill Search

Submit a Legislative Proposal

Newsroom Releases / Editorials Photos

Releases / Editorials

Photos

Resources California Senate Fellows Program Coronavirus Information Education Register to Vote Unclaimed Property Veteran Resources

California Senate Fellows Program

Coronavirus Information

Education

Register to Vote

Unclaimed Property

Veteran Resources

Contact me My Offices E-mail the Senator Subscribe

My Offices

E-mail the Senator

Subscribe

Senate Approves Leader Grove's Resolution Supporting Free Trade Agreement

More News

View All

Breadcrumb

Aug 29
Senator Shannon Grove Celebrates Advancement of Key Bills for Special Education and Rural Healthcare, Expresses Disappointment Over Scrapping of Leno’s Law
Aug 27
VIDEO: Celebrity advocate Paris Hilton calls for passage of child protection measure ahead of key vote
Aug 25
Senator Shannon Grove and Assemblyman David Tangipa  Honor Retired NFL Quarterback, Derek Carr
Aug 21
Senator Shannon Grove opposes Democrats' attempt to override the will of California voters