In an effort to better protect and support survivors of sex trafficking while cracking down on the demand that fuels victimization, alongside Assemblywoman Maggy Krell ( D-Sacramento ), Senator Shannon Grove ( R-Bakersfield ) has co-sponsored AB 379 , which would establish a fund for community-based organizations supporting victims of sex trafficking, make it a crime to loiter with the intent to purchase sex, and ensure that the crime of purchasing a minor for sex applies in any case where the victim is under 18.

“I made a promise that I would never stop fighting for ALL children in the state of California and I intend to do just that,” said Senator Shannon Grove. “I am thrilled to partner with Assemblywoman Maggy Krell, a former federal prosecutor who handled major sex trafficking cases, to ensure children of all ages, are equally protected under the law and to provide resources to support survivors who have endured this horrific crime. Together, we are committed to strengthening protections for the most vulnerable among us.”

“If enacted, this law will fund community-based organizations helping victims escape sex trafficking while cracking down on those who are keeping the industry going. As Deputy Attorney General I spent years sending sex traffickers to prison, but there were never enough resources to help the victims, and in some cases, the victims were criminalized instead of those attempting to purchase sex acts with them. This law will change that,” said Assemblywoman Maggy Krell .

Sex trafficking remains a scourge in communities across California. On streets known as “blades” or “tracks,” in poor urban neighborhoods, mostly women and teens are bought by men who pull up in cars and offer money in exchange for degrading sex acts. Often, the money goes to sex traffickers who are watching and monitoring the individuals for sale on the blade. In 2022, California decriminalized loitering for prostitution, making it more difficult for law enforcement to intervene and investigate sex trafficking cases. In turn, the sex trafficking industry has openly flourished. Neighborhoods and small businesses have been crushed by “blade activity”, while victims have experienced increased levels of violence. Meanwhile, community based organizations dedicated to supporting victims are over worked and under resourced.

“Imagine a crowded In n’ Out drive-through; for every person taking the orders, 10-15 cars are waiting to be served,” said Sawan Vaden , executive director of Community Against Sexual Harm (CASH), a community-based organization that provides services to people who have been sexually exploited, including direct street outreach. “That’s the amount of demand that is on our streets in Sacramento; for every victim you see, there are at least fifteen men in cars lined up to buy sex, sitting there with total impunity.”

Sex trafficking disproportionately impacts girls and women of color from impoverished neighborhoods, LGBTQ youth , and children from the foster care system . Lacking a stable home environment and support system increases vulnerability.

“Early childhood sexual abuse and rape pushed me into exploitation. I nearly lost my life at the hands of sex buyers on multiple occasions. Even as an adult, I was still trapped in the system of prostitution— it never felt consensual. This bill doesn’t just provide funding for victim support—it ensures that there are stronger legal tools to target the predators who keep this violent industry thriving by buying women and girls like me,” said Marjorie Saylor , a survivor leader and advocate who serves as the San Diego District Attorney’s Care Coordinator & Director of Human Trafficking Services and Awareness.

Key Provisions of AB 379:

Funding Survivor Support : Establishes the Survivor Support Fund, directing fines collected from offenders to community-based organizations that provide direct services and outreach to sex trafficking victims.

Cracking Down on Demand for Commercial Sex: The bill makes loitering with the intent to purchase commercial sex a misdemeanor, punishable by a $1,000 fine in addition to any other penalties.

Protecting Minors: Ensures that the crime of purchasing a minor for sex applies in any case where the victim is under the age of 18.

Connecting to Resources: Those charged with prostitution under current law for receiving something of value in exchange for a sex act, must be offered diversion for first and second time offenses, rather than criminal penalties.

For more information, read the report “ Estimating Sex Trafficking in Sacramento County ” and the AB 379 factsheet .

What other supporters are saying:

Vanessa Russell, Executive Director of Love Never Fails, an Oakland-based community organization providing support to survivors of trafficking, including direct outreach: “As human trafficking has grown in the beautiful city of Oakland, it’s brought with it a rising level of violence concentrated along hotspots like International Boulevard. Trafficking, and the violence that comes with it, harms every part of the community – residents, businesses, overstretched community organizations, and the victims themselves. Meanwhile, local law enforcement is hamstrung to stop this exploitation without laws in place to criminalize loitering the intent to purchase commercial sex.”

Ashlie Bryant , CEO, 3Strands Global Foundation, a national organization based in Sacramento, focusing on human trafficking prevention, education and reintegration for survivors: “At 3Strands Global Foundation, we believe in a future where every individual is free from the threat of human trafficking and exploitation. AB 379 is a critical step forward in protecting vulnerable communities, strengthening prevention efforts, and ensuring survivors receive the support they deserve. Importantly, this legislation also addresses the demand that fuels trafficking, holding perpetrators accountable and reducing exploitation at its root. We stand in full support of AB 379 and urge its passage to create a safer California for all.”

Lieutenant Governor Eleni Kounalakis: “Human trafficking is a crisis that demands urgent action. I’ve seen firsthand the devastating impact of this crime. I am proud to cosponsor AB 379, and I am grateful for Assemblywoman Maggy Krell’s work in championing this critical bill. AB 379 will help strengthen enforcement, prevention, and efforts to reduce demand—helping keep our communities safer.”

Sacramento County Sheriff Jim Cooper: “As Sheriff, I strongly support Assembly Bill 379, which strengthens penalties for prostitution-related offenses, targeting sex buyers and especially those who exploit minors through human trafficking. Human trafficking is a horrific crime that destroys lives and preys on the most vulnerable members of our communities through coercion, violence, and fear. Demand drives this criminal industry, and by holding buyers and traffickers accountable with tougher consequences, we can take meaningful steps to dismantle these operations and protect victims. Our children and communities deserve to be safe. I urge lawmakers to pass this bill and take a firm stand against human trafficking in our state.”

Sacramento County District Attorney Thien Ho: “The Sacramento County DA’s Office created a regional task force to combat human trafficking. I am proud to cosponsor this piece of legislation with Assemblywoman Krell because it would help advance that cause. This bill will also give law enforcement more tools that they desperately need to protect victims and hold traffickers accountable.”

San Diego County District Attorney Summer Stephan: “It’s time that our laws clearly declare that children and adults are not for sale, provide law enforcement with the tools to protect victims from criminal buyers and traffickers, and increase resources needed to help victims recover from trauma. I’m proud to co-sponsor Assembly Bill 379 and stand alongside Assemblywoman Krell to strengthen human trafficking laws. This important bill closes a loophole that allowed teen children to be trafficked and bought for sex like a slice of pizza with little consequence. It also provides the tools for law enforcement to protect victims by enforcing loitering for prostitution laws against exploitative buyers who fuel human trafficking and provides increased resources for much needed services and shelter for victims of human trafficking. Only by bolstering human trafficking laws can we protect the most vulnerable and stop allowing lives to be destroyed.”

Sponsors:

Community Against Sexual Harm (CASH)

Love Never Fails

3Strands Global Foundation

California Lieutenant Governor Eleni Kounalakis

Sacramento County Sheriff Jim Cooper

Sacramento County District Attorney Thien Ho

San Diego Mayor Todd Gloria

San Diego County District Attorney Summer Stephan

Capitol Office

1021 O Street, Room 7150 Sacramento, CA 95814 Phone: (916) 651-4012 Fax: (916) 651-4916

Bakersfield Office

5701 Truxtun Ave., Suite 150 Bakersfield, CA 93309 Phone: (661) 323-0443 Fax: (661) 323-0446

Fresno Office

567 W. Shaw Ave., Suite A-3 Fresno, CA 93704 Phone:  559-243-8580

facebook Facebook

twitter Twitter

instagram Instagram

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

Home

About Shannon Biography Committees 12th Senate District Map

Biography

Committees

12th Senate District Map

Legislation My Legislation Bill Search Submit a Legislative Proposal

My Legislation

Bill Search

Submit a Legislative Proposal

Newsroom Releases / Editorials Photos

Releases / Editorials

Photos

Resources California Senate Fellows Program Coronavirus Information Education Register to Vote Unclaimed Property Veteran Resources

California Senate Fellows Program

Coronavirus Information

Education

Register to Vote

Unclaimed Property

Veteran Resources

Contact me My Offices E-mail the Senator Subscribe

My Offices

E-mail the Senator

Subscribe

Senator Grove co-sponsors the Survivor Support and Demand Reduction Act

More News

View All

Breadcrumb

Aug 29
Senator Shannon Grove Celebrates Advancement of Key Bills for Special Education and Rural Healthcare, Expresses Disappointment Over Scrapping of Leno’s Law
Aug 27
VIDEO: Celebrity advocate Paris Hilton calls for passage of child protection measure ahead of key vote
Aug 25
Senator Shannon Grove and Assemblyman David Tangipa  Honor Retired NFL Quarterback, Derek Carr
Aug 21
Senator Shannon Grove opposes Democrats' attempt to override the will of California voters