Senate Republican Leader Shannon Grove (R-Bakersfield) released the following statement after a federal judge from the U.S. Southern District Court recently issued a temporary ruling against enforcing Assembly Bill 5 on independent truck drivers and motor carriers. This temporary ruling is in response to a lawsuit filed by the California Trucking Association. The next hearing relating to this legal challenge is scheduled for January 13th.

“It is shameful that the Democrats picked favorites at the expense of many other Californians.  Throughout 2019, Senate Republicans warned that AB 5 would have problems, and we offered viable and comprehensive solutions to help all independent contractors, but Democrats blocked our efforts. Now, the legal challenges are mounting against this job killer law.

“In 2020, Senate Republicans will continue to advocate for all independent contractors in California.  Californians deserve better and we will continue to fight in the courts and in the Capitol,” said Senate Republican Leader Shannon Grove.

Passed by the Democratic-controlled Legislature and signed into law by Governor Newsom in 2019, Assembly Bill 5 will harm tens of thousands of independent contractors by making it difficult for them to keep their employment status. Furthermore, AB 5 offers carve-outs to some industries that employ independent contractors and excludes others.

In two separate legal challenges, freelance journalists and gig economy companies have filed their own federal lawsuits against AB 5. The Pacific Legal Foundation, representing the American Society of Professional Journalists and the National Press Photographers Association, filed a lawsuit last month citing that AB 5 restricts free speech and the media. Uber and Postmates filed their own separate lawsuit stating that AB 5 violates individuals’ constitutional rights and unfairly discriminates against technology platforms.

Capitol Office

1021 O Street, Room 7150 Sacramento, CA 95814 Phone: (916) 651-4012 Fax: (916) 651-4916

Bakersfield Office

5701 Truxtun Ave., Suite 150 Bakersfield, CA 93309 Phone: (661) 323-0443 Fax: (661) 323-0446

Fresno Office

567 W. Shaw Ave., Suite A-3 Fresno, CA 93704 Phone:  559-243-8580

facebook Facebook

twitter Twitter

instagram Instagram

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

Home

About Shannon Biography Committees 12th Senate District Map

Biography

Committees

12th Senate District Map

Legislation My Legislation Bill Search Submit a Legislative Proposal

My Legislation

Bill Search

Submit a Legislative Proposal

Newsroom Releases / Editorials Photos

Releases / Editorials

Photos

Resources California Senate Fellows Program Coronavirus Information Education Register to Vote Unclaimed Property Veteran Resources

California Senate Fellows Program

Coronavirus Information

Education

Register to Vote

Unclaimed Property

Veteran Resources

Contact me My Offices E-mail the Senator Subscribe

My Offices

E-mail the Senator

Subscribe

Senate Republican Leader Grove's Statement on Lawsuits against State Law Impacting Independent Contractors

More News

View All

Breadcrumb

Aug 29
Senator Shannon Grove Celebrates Advancement of Key Bills for Special Education and Rural Healthcare, Expresses Disappointment Over Scrapping of Leno’s Law
Aug 27
VIDEO: Celebrity advocate Paris Hilton calls for passage of child protection measure ahead of key vote
Aug 25
Senator Shannon Grove and Assemblyman David Tangipa  Honor Retired NFL Quarterback, Derek Carr
Aug 21
Senator Shannon Grove opposes Democrats' attempt to override the will of California voters