Today Senator Suzette Martinez Valladares (R-Santa Clarita) announced that her bipartisan legislation to address her priority issue areas of affordability, public safety and expanding opportunities for Californians received Senate approval and now head to the State Assembly for consideration. In addition, an Assembly bill that she co-authored to bring down gas prices now moves to the Senate for consideration.

“Since being sworn in as State Senator, I have been laser-focused on three issue areas, tackling the affordability crisis, increasing public safety and expanding opportunities for Californians , and I’m just getting started,” said Senator Valladares.  “As a member of the minority party, making any real progress means persistence, building relationships and working across the aisle to reach consensus.”

Friday, June 6 marked the deadline for legislation to be passed out of its house of origin, to be able to advance in the legislative process. Each of these bills now move on to the other house for consideration before going to the Governor’s desk.

“There is a lot more work to be done to bring down the cost of living, make our streets safer and to ensure Californians have access to a good education and a good job.  I will never give up on these priorities and as long as I’m in office, I will continue to fight for pragmatic solutions for Californians,” Sen Valladares concluded.

Sen Valladares’ bills (authored and co-authored) that address her priority policy areas:

Affordability

SB 296 - Homes for Heroes Act – This bill aims to bring economic relief to California veterans who need it most. It will entirely exempt the primary residences of 100% disabled veterans from property taxes.

AB 30 - Cleaner Cheaper Fuel (E15) Blend Act –This bill will help to bring down gas prices by allowing a more cost-efficient and environmentally friendly blend of gasoline to be sold in California. With this bill’s passage, California will join the 49 other states that allow E15 blend to be sold.

Public Safety

SB 571 - Looting and Impersonating First Responders During an Emergency – This bill seeks to protect victims from opportunistic criminals during a state of emergency by increasing penalties for looting or impersonating first responders.

SB 563 - Expand Access to Off-Highway Motor Vehicles for Law Enforcement – The bill would expand access to needed grant funds for law enforcement who patrol mixed terrain areas throughout California.

Expanding Opportunities

SB 508 - Telehealth Access for Cancer Patients – This bill expands healthcare access for some cancer patients who need it most.

SB 630 (Allen)/AB 1138 (Zbur) - Film & TV Tax Credit – These bills help to keep good paying jobs in California by providing incentives to keep tv and film production in the state.

“These common sense measures will address some of the challenges faced by Californians.  I look forward to continuing to work with my colleagues to deliver more pragmatic, meaningful solutions to improve life for hard working Californians,” concluded Senator Valladares.

Capitol

Valencia Office

25060 West Ave Stanford, Suite 130 Valencia, CA 91355 Phone: (661) 257-1204

Lancaster Office

42505 10th St West Suite 109 Lancaster, CA 93534 Phone: (661) 729-6232

Adelanto Office

11600 Air Expressway Adelanto, CA 92301 Phone: (760) 246-2911

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

<d

Home

About Suzette Biography Committees District Map

Biography

Committees

District Map

Legislation My Legislation Bill Search

My Legislation

Bill Search

Newsroom Releases / Opinions Media Kit

Releases / Opinions

Media Kit

Contact Me Email the Senator My Offices

Email the Senator

My Offices

Senator Valladares’ Bills to Improve Affordability, Increase Public Safety and Expand Opportunities for Californians Advance in Legislature

Breadcrumb