In a bipartisan and intergovernmental cooperation success, Senate Minority Leader Brian W. Jones ( R-San Diego) and San Diego City Councilmember Joe LaCava (D-San Diego) successfully introduced to the San Diego City Council a critical amendment to save non-profit transitional housing in San Diego.

“A huge thank you to Councilmember LaCava for his partnership in saving non-profit transitional housing in San Diego,” said Leader Jones. “The exemption amendment passed by the San Diego City Council is a lifeline for vulnerable individuals such as veterans and domestic violence victims who need a stepping stone and supportive non-profit services.”

“The Warrior Foundation Freedom Station transitional housing program in San Diego is a model for the nation,” said Councilmember Joe LaCava . “The San Diego City Council acknowledged the program and transitional housing qualified for an exemption from the San Diego Residential Tenant Protection Ordinance, and we thank Leader Jones for his partnership and collaborative efforts.”

The amendment exempts non-profit transitional housing from the San Diego Residential Tenant Protection Ordinance. It protects and respects non-profit transitional housing programs.

Leader Jones and Councilmember LaCava worked hand-in-hand with the Warrior Foundation Freedom Station , who initially raised the issue and sought assistance. Since 2004, Warrior Foundation Freedom Station has provided critical transitional housing for medically retired veterans. The Jones-LaCava amendment will save this non-profit along with many others that provide critical transitional housing services to vulnerable groups including victims of domestic violence, child abuse, etc.

Jones and LaCava will be touring the Warrior Foundation Freedom Station later this week to meet with medically retired veterans and learn more about the non-profit’s work in the community.

Capitol Office

1021 O Street, Room 7640 Sacramento, CA 95814 Phone: (916) 651-4040 Fax: (916) 651-4940

Scripps Ranch Office

10650 Treena Street #110 San Diego, CA 92131 Phone: (858) 547-3818

Escondido Office

720 N. Broadway, Suite 110 Escondido, CA 92025 Phone: (760) 796-4655

facebook Facebook

twitter Twitter

instagram Instagram

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

Home

About Brian Biography

Biography

Legislation My Legislation Committees Bill Search

My Legislation

Committees

Bill Search

Newsroom Releases/Editorials In The News Audio/Video Are You Kidding Me? Photos Media Kit

Releases/Editorials

In The News

Audio/Video

Are You Kidding Me?

Photos

Media Kit

Contact Me Certificate Request District Internship Program District Map E-mail the Senator Legislative Proposal My Offices Subscribe to the Mailing List

Certificate Request

District Internship Program

District Map

E-mail the Senator

Legislative Proposal

My Offices

Subscribe to the Mailing List

Senate Minority Leader Jones and San Diego City Councilmember LaCava Announce Bipartisan Amendment Success

More News

ICYMI

View All

Breadcrumb

Aug 6
California Republicans’ Growing Impact on Social Media
Jul 16
Leader Jones Stands on Steps of the Capitol Opposing the Anti-Charter School Bill
Jul 16
AB 84 Charter Schools Press Conference
Jul 15
Leader Jones Demands Accountability on Dangerous Sexually Violent Predator Program

Jun 17
2025
$8-a-gallon gas? Senate Minority Leader Brian W. Jones requests audit of gas price hikes
Jun 9
2025
Nixed bill could have prevented LA unrest, California minority leader says
Jun 8
2025
California lawmaker warns Menendez brothers' case is driving return of bill to release thousands of killers
Jun 3
2025
Ramona nonprofit, resident recognized with Senate District 40 awards