Today, Senator Suzette Martinez Valladares (R-Santa Clarita) will introduce a package of legislation aimed at preventing wildfires and increasing penalties for criminals who prey on victims during these devastating events. With the goal of safeguarding communities and ensuring swift recovery, these proposed laws would address both the growing threat of wildfires and the need for stronger protections for those effected. "California faces unprecedented challenges from wildfires, and it is our responsibility to do everything in our power to protect our communities and most vulnerable residents," said Senator Valladares. "These new laws will help reduce wildfire risks, protect victims from opportunistic criminals, and ensure that our emergency responders can do their work without interference. With these bills, we are taking critical steps to build a safer, more resilient California." The legislation comes as the people of Southern California and Senate District 23, which Senator Valladares represents, continue to recover from the effects of multiple wildfires. Proposed Laws to Strengthen Fire Safety and Victim Protection:

Make Impersonating Emergency Responders a Felony – SB 264 This bill allows prosecutors to charge those who impersonate a police officer or firefighter during a state of emergency, with a felony. As wildfires threaten lives and property, criminals often take advantage of the chaos to deceive and exploit vulnerable residents. This new law will ensure that those who prey on communities in distress face serious consequences, helping protect both first responders and residents from these deceptive and dangerous actions.

Enhancements for Burglary Penalties During a State of Emergency – SB 265 This bill will classify burglary committed during a state of emergency—such as during or after a wildfire—as a felony offense. By increasing penalties for those who steal from wildfire victims or take advantage of an emergency situation, this bill sends a clear message that criminal behavior will not be tolerated in times of crisis. We must make it a top priority to safeguard those who are already suffering and this law will provide additional protection for vulnerable individuals and families.

Power Line Safety Act – SB 252 The Power Line Safety Act exempts power line infrastructure from the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) requirements for undergrounding lines. This legislation will expedite the process of moving power lines underground, a critical measure in reducing the risk of wildfires sparked by power equipment failures. It will also mitigate the need for Public Safety Power Shutoffs, which create unsafe conditions for our most vulnerable populations. This law allows utility companies to take faster, more effective action to reduce fire hazards, ultimately enhancing public safety.

It continues to be a top priority for Senator Valladares to work with lawmakers, first responders, and community leaders to enact proactive measures to help prevent fires and address the needs of wildfire victims.

Capitol

Valencia Office

25060 West Ave Stanford, Suite 130 Valencia, CA 91355 Phone: (661) 257-1204

Lancaster Office

42505 10th St West Suite 109 Lancaster, CA 93534 Phone: (661) 729-6232

Adelanto Office

11600 Air Expressway Adelanto, CA 92301 Phone: (760) 246-2911

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

<d

Home

About Suzette Biography Committees District Map

Biography

Committees

District Map

Legislation My Legislation Bill Search

My Legislation

Bill Search

Newsroom Releases / Opinions Media Kit

Releases / Opinions

Media Kit

Contact Me Email the Senator My Offices

Email the Senator

My Offices

Senator Suzette Valladares Introduces Wildfire Prevention &  Victim Protection Legislative Package

Breadcrumb