Senate Minority Leader Brian W. Jones ( R-San Diego ) has been recognized with the Golden Apple Award by California Parents for Public Virtual Education (CPPVE) for his unwavering commitment to parental choice and equitable access to quality public education.

"I am honored to receive the Golden Apple Award from CPPVE," said Leader Jones. "Parents deserve the ability to choose the best educational path for their children, and I will continue fighting to ensure every student in California has access to a quality education, whether in a traditional classroom or a public virtual school."

The Golden Apple Award is presented each legislative session to policymakers who have demonstrated exceptional dedication to expanding educational opportunities for California families. Senator Jones joins a distinguished list of past recipients, including Governor Jerry Brown and several legislative leaders.

CPPVE is a volunteer-led organization made up of parents advocating for public virtual learning options, such as full-time school-at-home, non-classroom-based schools, and independent study programs. Since its founding in 2011, the organization has worked tirelessly to educate policymakers on the vital role public virtual schools play in California’s education system.

“Senator Jones has been a steadfast advocate for parent choice and educational flexibility,” said Mike MeCey, Coalition Manager for CPPVE. “His commitment to ensuring all students—regardless of their learning environment—have access to high-quality public education makes him a deserving recipient of this award.”

As a longtime champion for education reform, Senator Jones has consistently pushed for policies that empower parents, expand school choice, and protect funding for alternative public education models. His leadership has been instrumental in ensuring students in non-traditional learning environments receive the resources they need to succeed.

Capitol Office

1021 O Street, Room 7640 Sacramento, CA 95814 Phone: (916) 651-4040 Fax: (916) 651-4940

Scripps Ranch Office

10650 Treena Street #110 San Diego, CA 92131 Phone: (858) 547-3818

Escondido Office

720 N. Broadway, Suite 110 Escondido, CA 92025 Phone: (760) 796-4655

facebook Facebook

twitter Twitter

instagram Instagram

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

Home

About Brian Biography

Biography

Legislation My Legislation Committees Bill Search

My Legislation

Committees

Bill Search

Newsroom Releases/Editorials In The News Audio/Video Are You Kidding Me? Photos Media Kit

Releases/Editorials

In The News

Audio/Video

Are You Kidding Me?

Photos

Media Kit

Contact Me Certificate Request District Internship Program District Map E-mail the Senator Legislative Proposal My Offices Subscribe to the Mailing List

Certificate Request

District Internship Program

District Map

E-mail the Senator

Legislative Proposal

My Offices

Subscribe to the Mailing List

Senator Brian Jones Honored with Golden Apple Award for Championing Parent Choice in Education

More News

ICYMI

View All

Breadcrumb

Aug 6
California Republicans’ Growing Impact on Social Media
Jul 16
Leader Jones Stands on Steps of the Capitol Opposing the Anti-Charter School Bill
Jul 16
AB 84 Charter Schools Press Conference
Jul 15
Leader Jones Demands Accountability on Dangerous Sexually Violent Predator Program

Jun 17
2025
$8-a-gallon gas? Senate Minority Leader Brian W. Jones requests audit of gas price hikes
Jun 9
2025
Nixed bill could have prevented LA unrest, California minority leader says
Jun 8
2025
California lawmaker warns Menendez brothers' case is driving return of bill to release thousands of killers
Jun 3
2025
Ramona nonprofit, resident recognized with Senate District 40 awards