Senator Brian W. Jones (R-Santee) has named Christine La Marca as the 2022 “Woman of the Year” for Senate District 38, comprising East and North San Diego County.

“Christine seizes every opportunity before her and excels in helping make her community a better place for all,” said Senator Brian W. Jones. “Our community would not be the same without all her efforts and hard work. Congratulations Christine!”

Christine La Marca is a San Diego native, mother, community advocate, and San Diego State University Aztec Alumnus. She enjoys being actively involved in her community and non-profit organizations with her many volunteer efforts focused on families, housing, and education. This includes her work with SPRITES , a mother-daughter philanthropic organization, where she is currently serving as the second VP of Fundraising and was the immediate past president.

As a parent of students at the Academy of Our Lady of Peace , Christine has been volunteering her time as the Golf Tournament committee’s Chair of the Event for 4 years. The proceeds from this event fund academic enrichment programs such as the Debate Team, Robotics, and Athletics to help offset costs ensuring nearly every student has access to these programs. This year, Christine is on track to raise over $150,000 through the golf tournament.

Additionally, Christine has served on the California Rental Housing Association (CalRHA) for five years, and served as president of the Southern California Rental Housing Association. While serving on these boards, Christine has been an advocate for the rental housing industry and collectively addresses industry and community needs. She has worked with California’s “Housing is Key” program to get rental assistance flowing to renters across the State as they dealt with the financial insecurity that resulted from the pandemic.

“There are people in our communities who for various reasons can’t help themselves,” said Christine La Marca. “I am blessed to be healthy, have the support of my friends and my family, and I have the love of God and my community that motivates me every day to go out and share my blessings with others. I am grateful and proud that my work has shown bright enough to earn this unexpected recognition. I work alongside some amazingly strong women, including my daughters. I am constantly humbled by the capacity of humans to love one another and be so generous of mind and spirit. I will continue to work hard and encourage other women to shine bright.  Our children and our community are living up to our example.”

Since 1987 the Legislative Women’s Caucus has encouraged all legislators to recognize a special woman in their district each year in honor of “Women’s History Month,” which occurs in March this year.

Capitol Office

1021 O Street, Room 7640 Sacramento, CA 95814 Phone: (916) 651-4040 Fax: (916) 651-4940

Scripps Ranch Office

10650 Treena Street #110 San Diego, CA 92131 Phone: (858) 547-3818

Escondido Office

720 N. Broadway, Suite 110 Escondido, CA 92025 Phone: (760) 796-4655

facebook Facebook

twitter Twitter

instagram Instagram

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

Home

About Brian Biography

Biography

Legislation My Legislation Committees Bill Search

My Legislation

Committees

Bill Search

Newsroom Releases/Editorials In The News Audio/Video Are You Kidding Me? Photos Media Kit

Releases/Editorials

In The News

Audio/Video

Are You Kidding Me?

Photos

Media Kit

Contact Me Certificate Request District Internship Program District Map E-mail the Senator Legislative Proposal My Offices Subscribe to the Mailing List

Certificate Request

District Internship Program

District Map

E-mail the Senator

Legislative Proposal

My Offices

Subscribe to the Mailing List

Senator Jones selects Christine La Marca as “Woman of the Year” for Senate District 38

More News

ICYMI

View All

Breadcrumb

Aug 6
California Republicans’ Growing Impact on Social Media
Jul 16
Leader Jones Stands on Steps of the Capitol Opposing the Anti-Charter School Bill
Jul 16
AB 84 Charter Schools Press Conference
Jul 15
Leader Jones Demands Accountability on Dangerous Sexually Violent Predator Program

Jun 17
2025
$8-a-gallon gas? Senate Minority Leader Brian W. Jones requests audit of gas price hikes
Jun 9
2025
Nixed bill could have prevented LA unrest, California minority leader says
Jun 8
2025
California lawmaker warns Menendez brothers' case is driving return of bill to release thousands of killers
Jun 3
2025
Ramona nonprofit, resident recognized with Senate District 40 awards