Senator Rosilicie Ochoa Bogh ( R-Yucaipa ), in a significant move to support and honor U.S. veterans and active-duty service members, has introduced a comprehensive veterans bill package in the California State Senate, aiming to provide tangible benefits and recognition for those who have served the country. The legislative package includes Senate Bill 943 and Senate Bill 1186 , designed to enhance the lives of California’s service members.

“Our military personnel have made countless sacrifices in service to our nation. It is our duty and honor to support them in their transition to civilian life and to acknowledge their contributions in meaningful ways,” said Senator Ochoa Bogh. “These bills represent a step forward in our ongoing efforts to provide veterans with the respect, opportunities, and recognition they deserve.”

SB 943 seeks to encourage veterans to stay and work in California by streamlining their transition into civilian employment. Recognizing the valuable leadership, skills, and experiences gained in military service, this bill requires the Department of Human Resources (CalHR) to waive the bachelor’s degree requirements for civil service positions for U.S. veterans who have served at the rank of E-6 or higher for over two years. This initiative acknowledges the equivalent, if not superior, qualifications acquired through military service and aims to facilitate veterans’ access to state employment opportunities.

Understanding the importance of community and recreation in the well-being of service members, SB 1186 authorizes state, county, district, and citrus fruit fairs to waive admission charges for military personnel out of uniform. This gesture of appreciation allows veterans and active-duty military members to enjoy these community events, fostering a sense of belonging and gratitude within the state. It reflects California’s ongoing commitment to recognizing the sacrifices made by military personnel and their families.

The veterans’ bill package has garnered support from various organizations and advocates, emphasizing the need for such measures to ensure service members receive the support and opportunities they need to thrive in California.

SB 943 unanimously passed the Senate Labor, Public Employment, and Retirement Committee and is now headed to the Senate Military and Veterans Affairs Committee.

SB 1186 unanimously passed the Senate Agriculture Committee and will be heard in the Senate Appropriations Committee next week.

Capitol Office

1021 O Street, Room 7220 Sacramento, CA 95814 Phone: (916) 651-4019 Fax: (916) 651-4919

Redlands Office

1758 Orange Tree Lane, Suite B Redlands, CA 92374 Phone: (909) 335-0271 Fax: (909) 335-0282

facebook Facebook

twitter Twitter

instagram Instagram

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

Home

About Rosilicie My Legislation Current Legislation Legislative Accomplishments 2024 Legislative Accomplishments 2023 Legislative Accomplishments 2022-21 Bill Search Committees Biography

My Legislation Current Legislation Legislative Accomplishments 2024 Legislative Accomplishments 2023 Legislative Accomplishments 2022-21 Bill Search

Current Legislation

Legislative Accomplishments 2024

Legislative Accomplishments 2023

Legislative Accomplishments 2022-21

Bill Search

Committees

Biography

District District Map Virtual Insurance Town Hall Virtual PSPS Town Hall Wildfire Resources

District Map

Virtual Insurance Town Hall

Virtual PSPS Town Hall

Wildfire Resources

Newsroom Releases/Editorials

Releases/Editorials

Contact Me Constituent Services E-mail the Senator Look Ahead Mobile Office Hours My Offices State Agencies Subscribe

Constituent Services

E-mail the Senator

Look Ahead

Mobile Office Hours

My Offices

State Agencies

Subscribe

Senator Rosilicie Ochoa Bogh Introduces Veterans Bill Package

Breadcrumb