Today, Senator Shannon Grove named Tulare Chamber of Commerce Chief Executive Officer, Donnette Silva Carter as the 2024 Tulare County Woman of the Year. Donnette Silva Carter was honored at a reception in Tulare today.

“I am proud to honor Donnette Silva Carter for her dedication to business development and creating a vibrant community in Tulare,” said Senator Shannon Grove. “Her steadfast leadership and commitment to fostering economic growth have significantly contributed to the prosperity and well-being of our region.”

“Receiving this honor from Senator Shannon Grove is truly humbling. It is a testament to the hard work and dedication of our entire team here at the Tulare Chamber of Commerce,” said Donnette Silva Carter. “Together, we have worked very hard to support our local businesses and build a thriving community. I am grateful to serve the city of Tulare, and look forward to continuing our efforts to create a prosperous future for all.”

Donnette Silva Carter Biography:

Donnette Silva Carter is the Chief Executive Officer of the Tulare Chamber of Commerce, a position she has held for 7.5 years. In addition to her current job, Donnette has 17.5 years of experience in the chamber industry having previously been at the Porterville Chamber, and an additional 7 years in non-profit management. She graduated from Redwood High School and Fresno State with a Business Administration degree. Under her leadership, the Tulare Chamber has seen significant growth in membership and business initiatives. Donnette is actively involved in various organizations promoting economic and workforce development. She is dedicated to supporting businesses locally and regionally and is passionate about community growth and sustainability. Additionally, she advocates for Veteran rights and recognition.

Capitol Office

1021 O Street, Room 7150 Sacramento, CA 95814 Phone: (916) 651-4012 Fax: (916) 651-4916

Bakersfield Office

5701 Truxtun Ave., Suite 150 Bakersfield, CA 93309 Phone: (661) 323-0443 Fax: (661) 323-0446

Fresno Office

567 W. Shaw Ave., Suite A-3 Fresno, CA 93704 Phone:  559-243-8580

facebook Facebook

twitter Twitter

instagram Instagram

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

Senator Grove Recognizes Donnette Silva Carter as Tulare County Woman of the Year

Home

About Shannon Biography Committees 12th Senate District Map

Biography

Committees

12th Senate District Map

Legislation My Legislation Bill Search Submit a Legislative Proposal

My Legislation

Bill Search

Submit a Legislative Proposal

Newsroom Releases / Editorials Photos

Releases / Editorials

Photos

Resources California Senate Fellows Program Coronavirus Information Education Register to Vote Unclaimed Property Veteran Resources

California Senate Fellows Program

Coronavirus Information

Education

Register to Vote

Unclaimed Property

Veteran Resources

Contact me My Offices E-mail the Senator Subscribe

My Offices

E-mail the Senator

Subscribe

More News

View All

Breadcrumb

Aug 29
Senator Shannon Grove Celebrates Advancement of Key Bills for Special Education and Rural Healthcare, Expresses Disappointment Over Scrapping of Leno’s Law
Aug 27
VIDEO: Celebrity advocate Paris Hilton calls for passage of child protection measure ahead of key vote
Aug 25
Senator Shannon Grove and Assemblyman David Tangipa  Honor Retired NFL Quarterback, Derek Carr
Aug 21
Senator Shannon Grove opposes Democrats' attempt to override the will of California voters