The SD 19 nonprofit of the year. Click here to download a full-size image.

Senator Rosilicie Ochoa Bogh (R-Yucaipa) has proudly named Orenda Veterans Project, Inc . as the 2025 Nonprofit of the Year for their outstanding service to Veterans in the High Desert community and beyond. Located in Apple Valley, Orenda Veterans Project has become a vital lifeline for Veterans transitioning out of hardship and into stability, purpose, and independence.

Orenda Veterans Project provides essential support to Veterans with little to no income, offering food, shelter, clothing, and—most importantly—a path to long-term recovery and self-sufficiency. Through structured case management and a sober living environment, Veterans receive tailored care that includes health and wellness, housing, rehabilitation, career and college readiness programs, and resources for healthy living.

“Orenda Veterans Project stands as a powerful example of what compassion in action looks like,” said Senator Ochoa Bogh. “Their commitment to helping Veterans rebuild their lives with dignity and purpose is nothing short of inspiring. I’m honored to recognize their incredible work and the lives they’ve touched.”

The impact of the Orenda Veterans Project is amplified through strong partnerships with San Bernardino County Veterans Affairs, Behavioral Health, Victor Valley College, CAL Vet, the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs, and more. The project is supported by generous sponsors, including the Town of Apple Valley, Victorville, Hesperia, Southwest Gas “Fuel of Life,” McMillen Family Foundation, San Bernardino County, William A. Betterley Western Heritage Foundation, and local businesses.

“We are deeply honored to receive this recognition from Senator Ochoa Bogh,” said Ramona Evey, CEO of Orenda Veterans Project, Inc. “This acknowledgment belongs to every Veteran who has walked through our doors determined to take the next step and to every partner and supporter who makes this mission possible.”

With a mission to provide a sober, supportive environment for Veterans in all phases of rehabilitation, the Orenda Veterans Project continues to lead with heart and purpose—strengthening the region, one Veteran at a time.

﻿ This recognition was part of a larger celebration of CalNonprofits’ “California Nonprofits Day.” The recognition as a Nonprofit of the Year brings deserved attention to outstanding nonprofits while illustrating the remarkable diversity and vibrancy of California's nonprofit community. For more information about California Nonprofits Day, click here .

Capitol Office

1021 O Street, Room 7220 Sacramento, CA 95814 Phone: (916) 651-4019 Fax: (916) 651-4919

Redlands Office

1758 Orange Tree Lane, Suite B Redlands, CA 92374 Phone: (909) 335-0271 Fax: (909) 335-0282

facebook Facebook

twitter Twitter

instagram Instagram

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

Home

About Rosilicie My Legislation Current Legislation Legislative Accomplishments 2024 Legislative Accomplishments 2023 Legislative Accomplishments 2022-21 Bill Search Committees Biography

My Legislation Current Legislation Legislative Accomplishments 2024 Legislative Accomplishments 2023 Legislative Accomplishments 2022-21 Bill Search

Current Legislation

Legislative Accomplishments 2024

Legislative Accomplishments 2023

Legislative Accomplishments 2022-21

Bill Search

Committees

Biography

District District Map Virtual Insurance Town Hall Virtual PSPS Town Hall Wildfire Resources

District Map

Virtual Insurance Town Hall

Virtual PSPS Town Hall

Wildfire Resources

Newsroom Releases/Editorials

Releases/Editorials

Contact Me Constituent Services E-mail the Senator Look Ahead Mobile Office Hours My Offices State Agencies Subscribe

Constituent Services

E-mail the Senator

Look Ahead

Mobile Office Hours

My Offices

State Agencies

Subscribe

Senator Ochoa Bogh Names Orenda Veterans Project Nonprofit of the Year 2025

Breadcrumb