Today Senator Suzette Valladares (R-Santa Clarita) announced the introduction of Senate Bill 508 , which would expand access to life-saving cancer care by allowing cancer patients in California to consult with out-of-state physicians through telehealth platforms. If passed, this bill would provide patients with greater flexibility and broader access to specialized care without having to travel far from home.

“Often times, the best, most specialized cancer care is out of state and hard to get to, particularly when health condition or age makes traveling difficult,” said Senator Valladares. “This bill will allow cancer patients to connect with physicians remotely, eliminating geographic barriers and making specialized care more accessible when it’s needed most,” said Senator Valladares.

Under current law, telehealth visits between physicians and patients are confined within state borders, with exceptions for individuals with terminal diagnoses or those enrolled in clinical trials. Senate Bill 508 seeks to expand access for all California cancer patients.

“This is an important bill that expands access to healthcare for older adults in particular, ensuring they receive the treatment they require, with fewer restrictions,” said Janice Bailey, Executive Director, California Senior Legislature. “We are so grateful to Senator Valladares for introducing this bill and for her support in expanding healthcare opportunities for thousands of vulnerable Californians.”

“Cancer diagnosis and treatment are rapidly evolving, and specialized care is increasingly vital for patients. Many patients living in rural or underserved areas may not have access to the specialized oncology care they need. This bill will help to provide access to doctors that cancer patients may otherwise never be able to see,” concluded Senator Valladares.

Capitol

Valencia Office

25060 West Ave Stanford, Suite 130 Valencia, CA 91355 Phone: (661) 257-1204

Lancaster Office

42505 10th St West Suite 109 Lancaster, CA 93534 Phone: (661) 729-6232

Adelanto Office

11600 Air Expressway Adelanto, CA 92301 Phone: (760) 246-2911

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

<d

Home

About Suzette Biography Committees District Map

Biography

Committees

District Map

Legislation My Legislation Bill Search

My Legislation

Bill Search

Newsroom Releases / Opinions Media Kit

Releases / Opinions

Media Kit

Contact Me Email the Senator My Offices

Email the Senator

My Offices

Senator Suzette Valladares Introduces Bill to Expand Health Access for Cancer Patients

Breadcrumb