Today, Senator Shannon Grove (R-Bakersfield) will officially begin her new role as Senate Republican Leader. Senator Grove will succeed Senator Patricia Bates (R-Laguna Niguel) as the first female veteran and the third female leader in the history of the State Senate to serve in the top leadership post of the Senate Republican Caucus.

Senate Republican Leader Grove said, "Senator Bates leaves behind a lasting legacy as she kept the Senate Republican Caucus united for a common good. I want to thank Senator Bates for her leadership.

"I am honored that my colleagues in the caucus elected me to serve as the next Senate Republican Leader. Californians have a lot to be proud of, yet polling shows 53% of people don't want to be in the Golden State anymore and are considering fleeing to other states. Republicans collectively represent 29 strong in the legislature and we will work to make California affordable and promote opportunity for all.

"I look forward to working with the Senate pro Tem and the new governor as we find common ground such as solving the housing crisis, addressing frivolous litigation that stifles job growth, and fighting for the rights of our vulnerable developmentally disabled communities."

Senator Patricia Bates said, "I wish Senator Grove the best as she officially assumes her new leadership responsibilities today. She has the experience and skills to be an effective leader not just for Senate Republicans, but for all Californians who want a more effective state government. It was an honor to serve as Senate Republican Leader over the last two years to ensure that all voices across the political spectrum were heard in the Senate. As the Republican Leader Emeritus, I will continue to work closely with Leader Grove and Senate President pro Tem Toni Atkins as an engaged member of Senate leadership."

###

Senator Grove was the first female military veteran elected to the State Legislature and served in the Assembly from 2010 to 2016. After graduating from high school, she joined the U.S. Army and served in Germany. After finishing her Army service, Senator Grove started an employment agency with her sister-in-law.

Capitol Office

1021 O Street, Room 7150 Sacramento, CA 95814 Phone: (916) 651-4012 Fax: (916) 651-4916

Bakersfield Office

5701 Truxtun Ave., Suite 150 Bakersfield, CA 93309 Phone: (661) 323-0443 Fax: (661) 323-0446

Fresno Office

567 W. Shaw Ave., Suite A-3 Fresno, CA 93704 Phone:  559-243-8580

facebook Facebook

twitter Twitter

instagram Instagram

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

Home

About Shannon Biography Committees 12th Senate District Map

Biography

Committees

12th Senate District Map

Legislation My Legislation Bill Search Submit a Legislative Proposal

My Legislation

Bill Search

Submit a Legislative Proposal

Newsroom Releases / Editorials Photos

Releases / Editorials

Photos

Resources California Senate Fellows Program Coronavirus Information Education Register to Vote Unclaimed Property Veteran Resources

California Senate Fellows Program

Coronavirus Information

Education

Register to Vote

Unclaimed Property

Veteran Resources

Contact me My Offices E-mail the Senator Subscribe

My Offices

E-mail the Senator

Subscribe

Senator Grove Assumes Leadership Role Today

More News

View All

Breadcrumb

Aug 29
Senator Shannon Grove Celebrates Advancement of Key Bills for Special Education and Rural Healthcare, Expresses Disappointment Over Scrapping of Leno’s Law
Aug 27
VIDEO: Celebrity advocate Paris Hilton calls for passage of child protection measure ahead of key vote
Aug 25
Senator Shannon Grove and Assemblyman David Tangipa  Honor Retired NFL Quarterback, Derek Carr
Aug 21
Senator Shannon Grove opposes Democrats' attempt to override the will of California voters