Senator Tony Strickland ( R-Huntington Beach ) released a statement after members of the South Coast Air Quality Management District (SCAQMD) rejected a government mandate, which would have required residents in the counties of Los Angeles, Orange, Riverside, and San Bernardino to dump their operational gas furnaces and heaters and replace with more expensive, electric units. The SCAQMD members sent the issue back to committee with instructions for staff to create a moderated version.

“This is a significant victory for the residents of Senate District 36 and all Southern California as gas and water heaters are essential, not luxury items,” stated Senator Strickland . “I am pleased that members of this regional board took to heart the powerful testimonies of senior citizens, students, and small business owners who gathered to voice their concerns about this government mandate. Your voice made a difference, and today’s victory is truly your victory.”

This past week, Senator Strickland has warned his district about the upcoming vote, expressing concerns that the government mandate may worsen the affordability crisis. He also voiced his concerns regarding the SCAQMD’s mandate on the Senate floor earlier this week.

Click HERE to view Senator Strickland's remarks on his affordability amendments in the Senate.

“Had this government mandate passed today, the financial burden on families would be significant, as they would be paying ﻿ two to three times more for electricity compared to gas. Additionally, consider the strain on our aging power grid with so many costly electric units in operation during peak hours; we would undoubtedly be faced with rolling blackouts,” concluded Senator Strickland, who serves on the Senate Energy, Utilities and Communications Committee.

Days before the SCAQMD’s vote, Senator Strickland signed a letter joining a bipartisan coalition of state lawmakers urging the regional board to “explore alternative approaches that balance air quality improvements with economic feasibility for all residents.” Click HERE to read the coalition letter.

Background on Amended Rules 1111 and 1121:

The amended Rules 1111 and 1121 would have forced residents, renters, and small business owners to replace natural gas furnaces and water heaters in favor of more expensive all-electric units by 2026. According to the Cost of Living Council, the expense to upgrade to all-electric space and water heaters can range from $1,500 to $47,000 per household.

Capitol:

District Office:

301 Main Street, Suite 212 Huntington Beach, CA 92648 (714) 374-4000

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

<d

Home

About Tony Biography Committees

Biography

Committees

Newsroom Releases / Opinions Newsletters Audio / Video Photos

Releases / Opinions

Newsletters

Audio / Video

Photos

Contact Me District Map My Offices Scheduling Requests

District Map

My Offices

Scheduling Requests

Senator Strickland: ‘This is a significant victory’ as Regional Board rejected government mandate to force consumers to buy costly, electrical units

Breadcrumb