Today, Senator Shannon Grove (R-Bakersfield) recognized Huddleston Crane Service as the Senate District 16 Small Business of The Year. Senator Grove was joined by local elected officials, community leaders, and members of her district to celebrate the contributions Huddleston Crane services has made in the 16th Senate District and beyond.

Each year, California legislators have the opportunity to nominate a small business in their respective districts. The Small Business of the Year award celebrates extraordinary small businesses, their owners, and employees throughout the state.

Since the 1950s, Huddleston Crane Service has supported its neighbors and community with high-paying career opportunities that benefit not only the employees but their families and the local economy. In addition, Huddleston Crane Service supports local youth athletics, education, and veteran programs in our community. Huddleston Crane has sponsored Honor Flights for veterans to tour the U.S. Capitol, supported the Wounded Warrior Project of Bakersfield, and will be donating their crane service and labor for the World War II memorial project at Jastro Park.

“Dave Noerr and David Morton have worked tirelessly to adapt and meet the demand of many industries that are critical to the livelihoods of Californians, such as the oil and gas industry,” said Senator Grove. “I am grateful to be able to recognize the dedication and hard work of Huddleston Crane which has selflessly given to our community for decades and allowed Kern County to continue serving as the top energy-producing region in the state.”

Senator Grove presented Dave Noerr and David Morton, owners of Huddleston Crane Service, with a Senate Resolution to officially recognize the contributions and philanthropic work that has greatly benefitted Taft and the surrounding communities.

Capitol Office

1021 O Street, Room 7150 Sacramento, CA 95814 Phone: (916) 651-4012 Fax: (916) 651-4916

Bakersfield Office

5701 Truxtun Ave., Suite 150 Bakersfield, CA 93309 Phone: (661) 323-0443 Fax: (661) 323-0446

Fresno Office

567 W. Shaw Ave., Suite A-3 Fresno, CA 93704 Phone:  559-243-8580

facebook Facebook

twitter Twitter

instagram Instagram

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

Home

About Shannon Biography Committees 12th Senate District Map

Biography

Committees

12th Senate District Map

Legislation My Legislation Bill Search Submit a Legislative Proposal

My Legislation

Bill Search

Submit a Legislative Proposal

Newsroom Releases / Editorials Photos

Releases / Editorials

Photos

Resources California Senate Fellows Program Coronavirus Information Education Register to Vote Unclaimed Property Veteran Resources

California Senate Fellows Program

Coronavirus Information

Education

Register to Vote

Unclaimed Property

Veteran Resources

Contact me My Offices E-mail the Senator Subscribe

My Offices

E-mail the Senator

Subscribe

Senator Grove Nominates Huddleston Crane Service as Senate District 16 Small Business of the Year

More News

View All

Breadcrumb

Aug 29
Senator Shannon Grove Celebrates Advancement of Key Bills for Special Education and Rural Healthcare, Expresses Disappointment Over Scrapping of Leno’s Law
Aug 27
VIDEO: Celebrity advocate Paris Hilton calls for passage of child protection measure ahead of key vote
Aug 25
Senator Shannon Grove and Assemblyman David Tangipa  Honor Retired NFL Quarterback, Derek Carr
Aug 21
Senator Shannon Grove opposes Democrats' attempt to override the will of California voters