SACRAMENTO - Senate Republican Leader Shannon Grove ( R-Bakersfield ) recently joined hundreds of advocates, supporters, and members of the developmentally disabled community at a rally held on the North Steps of the State Capitol. Organizers marched from the Crest Theatre and ended at the Capitol where Leader Grove addressed the crowd about her advocacy to support the developmentally disabled community. As a four-time recipient of the champion of the developmentally disabled community award, Leader Grove has been a staunch advocate for this community since 2011.

In February, Senate Republicans delivered a letter to the Chairs of the Assembly and Senate Budget Committees requesting for three budget items, including an 8 percent across-the-board payment rate increase as a down payment for providers who serve the developmentally disabled community.  A recent rate study conducted by the California Department of Developmental Services confirmed the need for a major new investment of funds for community services.

“The developmentally disabled community needs to be made a higher priority. California made a promise to them, but that promise falls short if we do not provide enough money for life-changing services.  Adequate resources allow for members of this community to have a safe, stable, and a fulfilling living environment. We must value and protect our vulnerable members of the developmentally disabled community,” said Leader Grove.

More than 20 members from Bakersfield, including Assistant Vice President Shawn Kennemer from the Bakersfield ARC, attended the rally in Sacramento.

“Once again, Senator Grove demonstrated her continued and committed support to persons with disabilities during her dynamic and moving speech at the Keep the Promise rally on the steps of the Capitol. Her commitment to this vulnerable population has been demonstrated time and time again. We appreciate her demonstrated leadership in obtaining all Republican signatures on a letter of commitment for an additional 8% funding increase. She truly is a champion for the individuals we serve,” said Kennemer.

Capitol Office

1021 O Street, Room 7150 Sacramento, CA 95814 Phone: (916) 651-4012 Fax: (916) 651-4916

Bakersfield Office

5701 Truxtun Ave., Suite 150 Bakersfield, CA 93309 Phone: (661) 323-0443 Fax: (661) 323-0446

Fresno Office

567 W. Shaw Ave., Suite A-3 Fresno, CA 93704 Phone:  559-243-8580

facebook Facebook

twitter Twitter

instagram Instagram

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

Home

About Shannon Biography Committees 12th Senate District Map

Biography

Committees

12th Senate District Map

Legislation My Legislation Bill Search Submit a Legislative Proposal

My Legislation

Bill Search

Submit a Legislative Proposal

Newsroom Releases / Editorials Photos

Releases / Editorials

Photos

Resources California Senate Fellows Program Coronavirus Information Education Register to Vote Unclaimed Property Veteran Resources

California Senate Fellows Program

Coronavirus Information

Education

Register to Vote

Unclaimed Property

Veteran Resources

Contact me My Offices E-mail the Senator Subscribe

My Offices

E-mail the Senator

Subscribe

Senator Grove is a Champion for Members of the Developmentally Disabled Community

More News

View All

Breadcrumb

Aug 29
Senator Shannon Grove Celebrates Advancement of Key Bills for Special Education and Rural Healthcare, Expresses Disappointment Over Scrapping of Leno’s Law
Aug 27
VIDEO: Celebrity advocate Paris Hilton calls for passage of child protection measure ahead of key vote
Aug 25
Senator Shannon Grove and Assemblyman David Tangipa  Honor Retired NFL Quarterback, Derek Carr
Aug 21
Senator Shannon Grove opposes Democrats' attempt to override the will of California voters