SACRAMENTO – Senate Republican Leader Shannon Grove ( R-Bakersfield ) and Senator Brian Jones ( R-El Cajon ) recently introduced Senate Bill 875 which would allow freelance translators and interpreters to remain as independent contractors. Co-authored by legislative Republicans from both the State Assembly and State Senate, SB 875 would specifically allow interpreters and translators to continue to serve members of the deaf and hard of hearing community.

Legislative Republicans who are co-authors of SB 875 include: Senator Patricia Bates ( Laguna Niguel ), Senator Andreas Borgeas ( Fresno ), Senator Ling Ling Chang ( Diamond Bar ), Senator Brian Dahle ( Bieber ), Senator John Moorlach ( Costa Mesa ), Senator Mike Morrell ( Rancho Cucamonga ), Senator Jim Nielsen ( Tehama ), Senator Scott Wilk ( Santa Clarita ), Assemblymember James Gallagher ( Yuba City ) and Assemblymember Tom Lackey ( Palmdale ).

"A bad law has put our hard of hearing and deaf communities at risk of not having access to important services. Republicans are offering a solution so independent contractors can once again provide services as interpreters, live closed captioners, or court reporters in settings such as medical facilities, courtrooms, or live television. Republicans will continue our efforts to fight for freelancers in the Capitol," said Senate Republican Leader Shannon Grove.

“AB 5 has decimated a lot of freelance interpreters and translators who work in a profession that requires them to be on the road often. These folks thrive in their profession working with a wide variety of clients and unpredictable schedules. Now, AB 5 forces them into an ‘employee’ category which is wrong and this legislation is the first step in correcting it,” said Senator Brian Jones.

BACKGROUND:

Known as a job killer law, Assembly Bill 5 (2019) went into effect in January 2020. Independent contractors from across the state have been under attack and dealing with the negative impacts of AB 5. KUSI is a San Diego television station and has been sharing stories about the impacts of AB 5 to their viewers, including a story about Marybel Carino who is a court interpreter. Click here to watch the full story.

Capitol Office

1021 O Street, Room 7150 Sacramento, CA 95814 Phone: (916) 651-4012 Fax: (916) 651-4916

Bakersfield Office

5701 Truxtun Ave., Suite 150 Bakersfield, CA 93309 Phone: (661) 323-0443 Fax: (661) 323-0446

Fresno Office

567 W. Shaw Ave., Suite A-3 Fresno, CA 93704 Phone:  559-243-8580

facebook Facebook

twitter Twitter

instagram Instagram

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

Home

About Shannon Biography Committees 12th Senate District Map

Biography

Committees

12th Senate District Map

Legislation My Legislation Bill Search Submit a Legislative Proposal

My Legislation

Bill Search

Submit a Legislative Proposal

Newsroom Releases / Editorials Photos

Releases / Editorials

Photos

Resources California Senate Fellows Program Coronavirus Information Education Register to Vote Unclaimed Property Veteran Resources

California Senate Fellows Program

Coronavirus Information

Education

Register to Vote

Unclaimed Property

Veteran Resources

Contact me My Offices E-mail the Senator Subscribe

My Offices

E-mail the Senator

Subscribe

Senate Republicans Introduce Bill to Help Independent Contractors who Provide Necessary Services to Vulnerable Communities

More News

View All

Breadcrumb

Aug 29
Senator Shannon Grove Celebrates Advancement of Key Bills for Special Education and Rural Healthcare, Expresses Disappointment Over Scrapping of Leno’s Law
Aug 27
VIDEO: Celebrity advocate Paris Hilton calls for passage of child protection measure ahead of key vote
Aug 25
Senator Shannon Grove and Assemblyman David Tangipa  Honor Retired NFL Quarterback, Derek Carr
Aug 21
Senator Shannon Grove opposes Democrats' attempt to override the will of California voters