Radical Democrats on the Senate Public Safety Committee blocked Senate Bill 554 , the Safety Before Criminal Sanctuary Act, authored by Senate Minority Leader Brian W. Jones ( R-San Diego ). The measure proposed a modest reform to California’s Sanctuary State Law to help ensure violent offenders are not shielded from federal immigration authorities. Click here for the bill’s factsheet and here for a video recording of the fiery debate during the hearing.

"Our Safety Before Criminal Sanctuary Act is a commonsense reform to close dangerous loopholes in California’s Sanctuary State policies and keep violent illegal immigrants off our streets," said Leader Jones. "Senate Democrats chose to side with violent offenders over the safety of Californians, allowing dangerous criminals back into our communities to threaten citizens and law-abiding immigrants alike."

SB 554 would have required local law enforcement to cooperate with federal immigration authorities for illegal immigrants convicted of serious and violent felonies including rape, child molestation, armed robbery, DUIs, human trafficking, and drug trafficking.

Current law simply allows – but does not require – local law enforcement to cooperate with federal immigration authorities if they reach out seeking the transfer of individuals convicted of certain serious crimes. When law enforcement chooses not to cooperate, federal agents are often forced to conduct dangerous at-large raids in neighborhoods instead of making arrests safely in jails.

These raids can then lead to an increase in "collateral arrests,” when additional illegal immigrants are unintentionally swept up in enforcement actions because violent offenders were not turned over in the first place.

For example , during a raid in Los Angeles , federal agents targeted 117 violent criminals released after convictions for child sex crimes, gun crimes, gang activity, and other serious felonies. Because local law enforcement prevented immigration officials from arresting these criminals in the “secure confines of a jail,” during the raid, they picked up an additional 95 illegal immigrants without serious criminal histories, including children, as “collateral arrests.” Read Leader Jones' recent op-ed in The San Diego Union-Tribune , where he delves deeper into the issue of collateral arrests.

"The sanctuary state law is not protecting immigrant families, it’s endangering them," said Leader Jones. "When immigration officials have to chase a violent illegal immigrant felon through a neighborhood instead of picking them up at the jailhouse, more innocent people are put at risk. SB 554 would have helped stop these collateral arrests.”

Additionally, SB 554 would have helped protect the public from repeat, violent criminals. For example, in 2020, two innocent Californians were murdered by a repeat, violent illegal immigrant after Santa Clara law enforcement refused to cooperate with immigration officials on multiple occasions.

Last week, the Newsom Administration announced it is releasing Oscar Eduardo Ortega-Anguiano — a twice-deported illegal immigrant with a violent criminal history. Because of California’s Sanctuary State laws, there is no guarantee that law enforcement will cooperate with immigration officials for this violent offender.

“That’s why I introduced Senate Bill 554. It requires law enforcement to cooperate with federal immigration authorities when it comes to convicted, violent illegal immigrants like Ortega-Anguiano. Safety must come before sanctuary,” said Leader Jones on X.

Despite over 700 Californians signing the petition in support of SB 554, the measure failed in the Senate Public Safety Committee on a party-line 1-5 vote.

Senator Suzette Martinez Valladares (R-Santa Clarita) , a coauthor of SB 554, presented the bill alongside Leader Jones.

“We know the vast majority of immigrants come here to build a better life, to work hard, and to pursue the American Dream,” said Senator Suzette Valladares . “But we also know that some come here to exploit, to harm, and to victimize others. It is unconscionable to not hold these violent criminals accountable, and that is what SB 554 would have done.”

During the hearing, a constituent of Leader Jones, Sharie Finn, testified in support of the bill as a lead witness. Sharie is the mother of a survivor, a child welfare advocate, and the founder of The RAD Movement.

"As a mother, it is my inherent duty to shield my child from harm, just as it is the duty of our laws to shield all members of our community," said Sharie Finn. "When those laws fail us, it leaves us vulnerable, helpless, and broken. Thank you, Senator Jones, for standing with us as we strive for a more secure and just society for everyone.

SB 554 is in response to a recent San Diego County ordinance declaring itself a “Super Sanctuary County,” banning law enforcement from cooperating with ICE for any offense—even those exempted under current law—unless a federal warrant is issued. Earlier this year, Leader Jones stood alongside law enforcement officials and victims’ advocates to unveil SB 554 at a press conference in front of the San Diego County Administration building.

"Senate Democrats sent a clear message: protecting violent criminal illegal immigrants is more important to them than protecting law-abiding Californians. I will continue fighting to end these reckless policies and put public safety first,” concluded Leader Jones.

Capitol Office

1021 O Street, Room 7640 Sacramento, CA 95814 Phone: (916) 651-4040 Fax: (916) 651-4940

Scripps Ranch Office

10650 Treena Street #110 San Diego, CA 92131 Phone: (858) 547-3818

Escondido Office

720 N. Broadway, Suite 110 Escondido, CA 92025 Phone: (760) 796-4655

facebook Facebook

twitter Twitter

instagram Instagram

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

Home

About Brian Biography

Biography

Legislation My Legislation Committees Bill Search

My Legislation

Committees

Bill Search

Newsroom Releases/Editorials In The News Audio/Video Are You Kidding Me? Photos Media Kit

Releases/Editorials

In The News

Audio/Video

Are You Kidding Me?

Photos

Media Kit

Contact Me Certificate Request District Internship Program District Map E-mail the Senator Legislative Proposal My Offices Subscribe to the Mailing List

Certificate Request

District Internship Program

District Map

E-mail the Senator

Legislative Proposal

My Offices

Subscribe to the Mailing List

Senate Democrats Shield Violent, Illegal Immigrant Felons in Sanctuary State

More News

ICYMI

View All

Breadcrumb

Aug 6
California Republicans’ Growing Impact on Social Media
Jul 16
Leader Jones Stands on Steps of the Capitol Opposing the Anti-Charter School Bill
Jul 16
AB 84 Charter Schools Press Conference
Jul 15
Leader Jones Demands Accountability on Dangerous Sexually Violent Predator Program

Jun 17
2025
$8-a-gallon gas? Senate Minority Leader Brian W. Jones requests audit of gas price hikes
Jun 9
2025
Nixed bill could have prevented LA unrest, California minority leader says
Jun 8
2025
California lawmaker warns Menendez brothers' case is driving return of bill to release thousands of killers
Jun 3
2025
Ramona nonprofit, resident recognized with Senate District 40 awards