Senator Tony Strickland ( R-Huntington Beach ) is urging Governor Newsom to respect the will of the voters and include $400 million in the May Revise to implement Proposition 36 and fund mental health and drug treatment programs. The anti-crime initiative passed last November by nearly 70% in all 58 counties.

“Governor Newsom touts himself as the defender of democracy and this week, he can put his rhetoric into action,” said Senator Strickland . “This is a golden opportunity for the governor to fund at least $400 million to implement the anti-crime initiative, which I believe will accomplish a goal of the governor’s mental health overhaul program. Make no mistake, the dollar amount for Prop. 36 is just a starting point as I believe additional funding will be necessary in order for those programs to be successful.”

In case you missed it, the McClatchy California Editorial Board recently published Senator Strickland’s Op-ed on Prop. 36 titled “Will Newsom finally listen to California’s clear call for public safety?”

The governor’s May Revision presentation is scheduled to take place this week. Click here to read the full Op-ed as published by Senator Strickland in the Sacramento Bee , Fresno Bee , Modesto Bee , San Luis Obispo Tribune , and Merced Sun- Star .

“For years, Gov. Gavin Newsom has pushed an image of himself as a defender of democracy and touted how much he respects the will of the people.

… “Beyond just respecting the will of the people and making crime illegal again, there are numerous real benefits we can see by funding the anti-crime initiative reforms. We can make a real impact at making communities safer. Now is the time to stop the rhetoric and take action.”

Click HERE to read the full Op-ed.

Capitol:

District Office:

301 Main Street, Suite 212 Huntington Beach, CA 92648 (714) 374-4000

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

<d

Home

About Tony Biography Committees

Biography

Committees

Newsroom Releases / Opinions Newsletters Audio / Video Photos

Releases / Opinions

Newsletters

Audio / Video

Photos

Contact Me District Map My Offices Scheduling Requests

District Map

My Offices

Scheduling Requests

Senator Strickland: ‘Golden opportunity’ for Newsom to fund Prop. 36 in May Revise

Breadcrumb