Senator Shannon Grove (R-Bakersfield) and Senate President pro Tempore Toni Atkins (D-San Diego) announced today their bipartisan legislation in partnership with Dolly Parton’s Imagination Library to establish California’s first Statewide Imagination Library Program unanimously passed the Senate Education Committee today.

SB 1183, which would establish the statewide program under the direction of the State Librarian, is the first time Senators Atkins and Grove have coauthored legislation. The program would establish a comprehensive initiative for encouraging preschool children to develop a love of reading and learning.

“A book is a door to limitless opportunities for children,” said Senator Shannon Grove. “Dolly Parton’s favorite book, A Little Engine That Could, has inspired generations of children. The book’s message is that with a little bit of work and a positive mindset, no matter the obstacles, children can achieve anything they dream. I am honored Dolly Parton has chosen California as her next stop on this railway of dreams to bring millions of books to millions of children in California. I am grateful to President Pro Tempore Toni Atkins’ for her partnership on SB 1183 and her passion for children’s literacy.”

The statewide Imagination Library program will focus on gifting monthly, free, age-appropriate books to California’s early readers, from birth until age five, through a direct mail program. Research shows that early reading offers numerous benefits for childhood development in the first five years of life, by inspiring the love of books and reading. Getting children excited about owning books and inspiring shared family reading helps build language, memory skills and spark a child’s imagination. Young children who are exposed to a variety of books and reading early on perform at higher levels in school.

“Ever since I was a young girl, I've had two great loves: books and Dolly Parton. It is an absolute joy to work with Senator Grove on legislation that brings them together,” Pro Tem Atkins said. “By bringing the Imagination Library to California, we can help ensure that all children—no matter where they live or how much money their families have—are able to access books that will spark curiosity and open the door to new adventures. As Dolly says, 'The seeds of these dreams are often found in books and the seeds you help plant in your community can grow across the world.' SB 1183 is the garden bed.”

Since 1995, Dolly Parton’s Imagination Library has delivered more than 178 million books to children in thousands of communities worldwide. Existing local programs in California have seen rising interest and success for this program especially in rural and hard to reach communities where libraries and books are more difficult to access. This bill intends to foster a love of reading in California’s communities by providing more books to early readers and families.

SB 1183 will next be heard in the Senate Appropriations Committee.

Capitol Office

1021 O Street, Room 7150 Sacramento, CA 95814 Phone: (916) 651-4012 Fax: (916) 651-4916

Bakersfield Office

5701 Truxtun Ave., Suite 150 Bakersfield, CA 93309 Phone: (661) 323-0443 Fax: (661) 323-0446

Fresno Office

567 W. Shaw Ave., Suite A-3 Fresno, CA 93704 Phone:  559-243-8580

facebook Facebook

twitter Twitter

instagram Instagram

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

Home

About Shannon Biography Committees 12th Senate District Map

Biography

Committees

12th Senate District Map

Legislation My Legislation Bill Search Submit a Legislative Proposal

My Legislation

Bill Search

Submit a Legislative Proposal

Newsroom Releases / Editorials Photos

Releases / Editorials

Photos

Resources California Senate Fellows Program Coronavirus Information Education Register to Vote Unclaimed Property Veteran Resources

California Senate Fellows Program

Coronavirus Information

Education

Register to Vote

Unclaimed Property

Veteran Resources

Contact me My Offices E-mail the Senator Subscribe

My Offices

E-mail the Senator

Subscribe

Senator Shannon Grove, Senate President pro Tempore Toni Atkins Champion Legislation to Bring Dolly Parton’s Imagination Library Program to All of California

More News

View All

Breadcrumb

Aug 29
Senator Shannon Grove Celebrates Advancement of Key Bills for Special Education and Rural Healthcare, Expresses Disappointment Over Scrapping of Leno’s Law
Aug 27
VIDEO: Celebrity advocate Paris Hilton calls for passage of child protection measure ahead of key vote
Aug 25
Senator Shannon Grove and Assemblyman David Tangipa  Honor Retired NFL Quarterback, Derek Carr
Aug 21
Senator Shannon Grove opposes Democrats' attempt to override the will of California voters