Senator Shannon Grove’s (R-Bakersfield) legislation, Senate Bill (SB) 14, is one of the first enhancement bills to pass out of Senate Public Safety Committee this year. As amended, SB 14 is a bi-partisan measure that would add human trafficking of a minor to the list of felony crimes that are defined as serious, making it a strike offense, under California’s Three Strikes law.

The fastest growing criminal industry in the world is the buying and selling of human beings, and California is one of the largest hubs for human trafficking.

“SB 14 will help strengthen protections for the thousands of minor victims who are sex trafficked and will serve as a deterrent for those who engage in this horrendous crime. While I am thankful that my legislation passed out of Senate Public Safety and will protect countless children who are trafficked, I remain committed to continuing to fight for survivors and victims of all ages.”

This bipartisan measure was coauthored by 31 members of the Legislature. SB 14 is supported by a large coalition of human trafficking survivors, advocates, local, national and international organizations. 3Strands Global Foundation, whose mission is to mobilize communities in order to combat human trafficking through prevention, education and reintegration programs, sponsored the measure.

“3Strands Global Foundation is honored to sponsor Senate Bill 14. As an organization that has worked for over a decade to end human trafficking, we applaud Senator Grove’s determination to ensure our communities are safe from this serious crime. SB 14 will bring justice for survivors and hold traffickers responsible who perpetrate this crime. We are committed to doing our part to hold those responsible for trafficking in our communities accountable, and it is our hope that the legislators will now do theirs,” said Ashley Bryant, CEO and co-founder of 3Strands Global Foundation.

An estimated 40 million people globally in the last decade have been forced into this modern form of slavery called human trafficking, a number that continues to grow. This horrendous practice could very easily be defined as “The Crime of our Time.” Human trafficking is one of the world’s fastest growing and most lucrative crimes, generating around $150 billion around the world each year.

SB 14 made it out of the Senate Public Safety Committee with a 5-0 vote and will next be heard in the Senate Appropriations Committee.

Press conference videos and photos: https://tinyurl.com/mbw4uv7b

Capitol Office

1021 O Street, Room 7150 Sacramento, CA 95814 Phone: (916) 651-4012 Fax: (916) 651-4916

Bakersfield Office

5701 Truxtun Ave., Suite 150 Bakersfield, CA 93309 Phone: (661) 323-0443 Fax: (661) 323-0446

Fresno Office

567 W. Shaw Ave., Suite A-3 Fresno, CA 93704 Phone:  559-243-8580

facebook Facebook

twitter Twitter

instagram Instagram

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

Home

About Shannon Biography Committees 12th Senate District Map

Biography

Committees

12th Senate District Map

Legislation My Legislation Bill Search Submit a Legislative Proposal

My Legislation

Bill Search

Submit a Legislative Proposal

Newsroom Releases / Editorials Photos

Releases / Editorials

Photos

Resources California Senate Fellows Program Coronavirus Information Education Register to Vote Unclaimed Property Veteran Resources

California Senate Fellows Program

Coronavirus Information

Education

Register to Vote

Unclaimed Property

Veteran Resources

Contact me My Offices E-mail the Senator Subscribe

My Offices

E-mail the Senator

Subscribe

Senator Grove’s Human Trafficking Bill Passes Senate Public Safety Committee

More News

View All

Breadcrumb

Aug 29
Senator Shannon Grove Celebrates Advancement of Key Bills for Special Education and Rural Healthcare, Expresses Disappointment Over Scrapping of Leno’s Law
Aug 27
VIDEO: Celebrity advocate Paris Hilton calls for passage of child protection measure ahead of key vote
Aug 25
Senator Shannon Grove and Assemblyman David Tangipa  Honor Retired NFL Quarterback, Derek Carr
Aug 21
Senator Shannon Grove opposes Democrats' attempt to override the will of California voters