Today Senator Suzette Martinez Valladares (R-Santa Clarita) praised the rejection of proposed regulations by the South Coast Air Quality Management District (SCAQMD) that would have imposed significant costs on California residents and small businesses. Today, SCAQMD considered rules that would have affected 17 million consumers and would have required consumers to purchase exorbitantly expensive all-electric heaters and furnaces or pay extra for the privilege of using natural gas appliances when replacing their appliances.

“I’m encouraged by today’s decision to reject these costly and overly burdensome regulations,” said Senator Valladares. “In my district, where the cost of living is already among the highest in the nation, working families and small businesses are under immense financial pressure. Adding more expensive mandates without considering their economic impact would have made things even harder for the people I represent.”

While expressing strong support for environmental protection, Senator Valladares emphasized the importance of developing policies that account for both ecological and economic needs.

“I support efforts to improve air quality and protect our environment,” she said. “But environmental policies must be crafted with a clear understanding of the financial impact on everyday Californians. Sustainability must include economic sustainability. If we want long-term progress, we need solutions that protect both the environment and people’s ability to earn a living,” Senator Valladares concluded.

Capitol

Valencia Office

25060 West Ave Stanford, Suite 130 Valencia, CA 91355 Phone: (661) 257-1204

Lancaster Office

42505 10th St West Suite 109 Lancaster, CA 93534 Phone: (661) 729-6232

Adelanto Office

11600 Air Expressway Adelanto, CA 92301 Phone: (760) 246-2911

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

<d

Home

About Suzette Biography Committees District Map

Biography

Committees

District Map

Legislation My Legislation Bill Search

My Legislation

Bill Search

Newsroom Releases / Opinions Media Kit

Releases / Opinions

Media Kit

Contact Me Email the Senator My Offices

Email the Senator

My Offices

Senator Valladares Applauds Rejection of Costly New SCAQMD Regs

Breadcrumb