SACRAMENTO – Senate Republican Leader Shannon Grove ( R-Bakersfield ) responds to the latest legal action filed by the California Natural Resources Agency and the California Environmental Protection Agency (CalEPA) against the Trump Administration over the biological opinions and water delivery:

“President Trump has taken great strides forward with his water action this week and he is keeping his promise to farmers, growers, and ranchers so they can grow our food. Our President understands where water flows, food grows.

“This latest legal challenge is unacceptable and sends a clear signal that the Governor doesn’t understand where our food comes from. Unfortunately, this lawsuit is another unnecessary attack on California’s hardworking farmers, farmworkers, and families.

“These biological opinions include new science that must not be ignored or dismissed. Instead of having access to water to ensure food security, California will face wasted resources and delays with the courts as we deal with this frivolous legal action. Enough is enough,” said Senate Republican Leader Shannon Grove.

BACKGROUND:

The U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service and the National Marine Fisheries Service released Biological Opinions on the Bureau of Reclamation’s newly proposed operations in the Central Valley Project last October. Combined with the State Water Project, the Central Valley Project plays a key role in the success of California’s economy and environment. Click here to read the report.

Capitol Office

1021 O Street, Room 7150 Sacramento, CA 95814 Phone: (916) 651-4012 Fax: (916) 651-4916

Bakersfield Office

5701 Truxtun Ave., Suite 150 Bakersfield, CA 93309 Phone: (661) 323-0443 Fax: (661) 323-0446

Fresno Office

567 W. Shaw Ave., Suite A-3 Fresno, CA 93704 Phone:  559-243-8580

facebook Facebook

twitter Twitter

instagram Instagram

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

Home

About Shannon Biography Committees 12th Senate District Map

Biography

Committees

12th Senate District Map

Legislation My Legislation Bill Search Submit a Legislative Proposal

My Legislation

Bill Search

Submit a Legislative Proposal

Newsroom Releases / Editorials Photos

Releases / Editorials

Photos

Resources California Senate Fellows Program Coronavirus Information Education Register to Vote Unclaimed Property Veteran Resources

California Senate Fellows Program

Coronavirus Information

Education

Register to Vote

Unclaimed Property

Veteran Resources

Contact me My Offices E-mail the Senator Subscribe

My Offices

E-mail the Senator

Subscribe

Senate Republican Leader Grove Blasts New Lawsuit Restricting Water Delivery

More News

View All

Breadcrumb

Aug 29
Senator Shannon Grove Celebrates Advancement of Key Bills for Special Education and Rural Healthcare, Expresses Disappointment Over Scrapping of Leno’s Law
Aug 27
VIDEO: Celebrity advocate Paris Hilton calls for passage of child protection measure ahead of key vote
Aug 25
Senator Shannon Grove and Assemblyman David Tangipa  Honor Retired NFL Quarterback, Derek Carr
Aug 21
Senator Shannon Grove opposes Democrats' attempt to override the will of California voters