Senator Rosilicie Ochoa Bogh (R-Yucaipa) proudly announces that the Legislature has approved Senate Concurrent Resolution 59 , which designates the overcrossing on State Route 210 at Archibald Avenue in the City of Rancho Cucamonga as the “Senator Bob Dutton Memorial Overcrossing.”

“Senator Dutton was a public servant who dedicated his life to Rancho Cucamonga and San Bernardino County. He represented the best of what the Inland Empire has to offer,” said Senator Ochoa Bogh. “His passing has deeply impacted our community. I hope that this dedication will be seen by his loved ones on their daily travels, letting them know that he is forever remembered for his commitment to public service.”

Sen. Dutton was elected to the California State Assembly to serve the 63rd Assembly District in 2002 and was elected to the California State Senate to serve the 31st Senate District in 2004. During his time as a State Legislator, he served as the Vice Chair of the Rules and Budget and Fiscal Review Committees, took the lead on housing and transportation issues, and was deeply passionate about fiscal responsibility and defending taxpayers.

During his tenure in the Legislature, he successfully led the effort to pardon Snickers, an orphaned black bear in his district. He hand-delivered the letters of local school children to then-Governor Schwarzenegger requesting Snickers be returned from a state facility to Wildhaven Ranch Wildlife Sanctuary and reunited with his companion, Little Bear, a fellow orphaned black bear.

Throughout his career, Sen. Dutton received many honors including Legislator of the Year by California League of Cities, California State Sheriffs’ Association, California Small Business Association, and California Small Business Roundtable. He also worked with worked with several community and civic organizations including the YMCA, Red Cross, the Chamber of Commerce, the Community Foundation, and San Bernardino County Sheriff’s Council.

After moving to California in 1969 to serve in the Army Reserve sand California Air National Guard, he dedicated his life to the people of Rancho Cucamonga and San Bernardino County, serving over 50 years in the community that nicknamed him “RC Bob.” On July 23, 2022, after his lengthy career in public service, Sen. Dutton lost his battle with cancer. He was 71 years old.

Senator Ochoa Bogh concluded, “I extend my gratitude to my Senate and Assembly colleagues from both sides of the aisle, many of whom coauthored this resolution, for recognizing the great work of Sen. Dutton. I also send a special “Thank you” to his wife Andrea for sharing her husband with us. We should all strive to replicate his commitment to his community and towards improving the lives of all Californians.”

Capitol Office

1021 O Street, Room 7220 Sacramento, CA 95814 Phone: (916) 651-4019 Fax: (916) 651-4919

Redlands Office

1758 Orange Tree Lane, Suite B Redlands, CA 92374 Phone: (909) 335-0271 Fax: (909) 335-0282

facebook Facebook

twitter Twitter

instagram Instagram

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

Home

About Rosilicie My Legislation Current Legislation Legislative Accomplishments 2024 Legislative Accomplishments 2023 Legislative Accomplishments 2022-21 Bill Search Committees Biography

My Legislation Current Legislation Legislative Accomplishments 2024 Legislative Accomplishments 2023 Legislative Accomplishments 2022-21 Bill Search

Current Legislation

Legislative Accomplishments 2024

Legislative Accomplishments 2023

Legislative Accomplishments 2022-21

Bill Search

Committees

Biography

District District Map Virtual Insurance Town Hall Virtual PSPS Town Hall Wildfire Resources

District Map

Virtual Insurance Town Hall

Virtual PSPS Town Hall

Wildfire Resources

Newsroom Releases/Editorials

Releases/Editorials

Contact Me Constituent Services E-mail the Senator Look Ahead Mobile Office Hours My Offices State Agencies Subscribe

Constituent Services

E-mail the Senator

Look Ahead

Mobile Office Hours

My Offices

State Agencies

Subscribe

Senator Bob Dutton Memorialized, Senate Concurrent Resolution 59 Approved

Breadcrumb