Today, Senate Minority Leader Brian W. Jones ( R-San Diego ) issued the following statement welcoming former California State Senate Democratic Majority Leader Gloria Romero to the Republican Party after she announced she is changing her voter registration:

“As former Senate Democrat Majority Leader, Gloria Romero’s decision to join the Republican Party shows her dedication to doing what’s best for California,” said Leader Jones. “For years, Gloria urged her now former party to ‘wake up’ and start standing up for everyday families again. Her leadership and experience have always been about serving the people, not partisan politics. It takes real courage to step away from the Party you've led and stand for what is right. We are honored to have Gloria on our side as we fight to fix California.”

“The pendulum is swinging in California. Sky-high prices, increasing crime, and record homelessness are the direct results of a broken government under the Democrat supermajority. Californians are increasingly rejecting these radical policies that have failed to deliver the solutions we desperately need. For anyone else who is tired of witnessing the Democrat supermajority run this state into the ground, we have a seat at our table for you, too,” continued Leader Jones.

From 2005 through 2008, Romero was the first woman to ever serve as the California State Senate Democratic Majority Leader. Despite her strong ties to the Democratic Party, Romero began rejecting the direction of the party and advocating for a more commonsense approach to the many issues in California. In a 2021 memo , Romero urged the Democratic Party to “WAKE UP, reverse course, and get back to standing up for ‘the little guy’ and everyday families once again.” After watching the Party continue to run further left and fail to offer real solutions to fix California, Romero announced she is switching her voter registration to Republican.

“I am now another near life-long Democrat who is joining the growing number of people, including key groups like Latinos, who are leaving the Democratic Party,” said Romero in front of the State Capitol this morning . “This is not the Democratic Party that I once championed. I do not recognize it anymore and I cannot continue. I changed my voting registration…to Republican, which has…become the champion of working people.”

Romero’s party switch comes less than a month after current State Senator Marie Alvarado-Gil ( R- Jackson) switched from Democrat to Republican. Much like Romero, Alvarado-Gil explained that the “Democratic Party is unrecognizable to what [she] once knew and lacks the will to fix the problems plaguing this state.”

Capitol Office

1021 O Street, Room 7640 Sacramento, CA 95814 Phone: (916) 651-4040 Fax: (916) 651-4940

Scripps Ranch Office

10650 Treena Street #110 San Diego, CA 92131 Phone: (858) 547-3818

Escondido Office

720 N. Broadway, Suite 110 Escondido, CA 92025 Phone: (760) 796-4655

facebook Facebook

twitter Twitter

instagram Instagram

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

Home

About Brian Biography

Biography

Legislation My Legislation Committees Bill Search

My Legislation

Committees

Bill Search

Newsroom Releases/Editorials In The News Audio/Video Are You Kidding Me? Photos Media Kit

Releases/Editorials

In The News

Audio/Video

Are You Kidding Me?

Photos

Media Kit

Contact Me Certificate Request District Internship Program District Map E-mail the Senator Legislative Proposal My Offices Subscribe to the Mailing List

Certificate Request

District Internship Program

District Map

E-mail the Senator

Legislative Proposal

My Offices

Subscribe to the Mailing List

Senate Minority Leader Jones Welcomes Former Senate Democrat Majority Leader to the Republican Party

More News

ICYMI

View All

Breadcrumb

Aug 6
California Republicans’ Growing Impact on Social Media
Jul 16
Leader Jones Stands on Steps of the Capitol Opposing the Anti-Charter School Bill
Jul 16
AB 84 Charter Schools Press Conference
Jul 15
Leader Jones Demands Accountability on Dangerous Sexually Violent Predator Program

Jun 17
2025
$8-a-gallon gas? Senate Minority Leader Brian W. Jones requests audit of gas price hikes
Jun 9
2025
Nixed bill could have prevented LA unrest, California minority leader says
Jun 8
2025
California lawmaker warns Menendez brothers' case is driving return of bill to release thousands of killers
Jun 3
2025
Ramona nonprofit, resident recognized with Senate District 40 awards