SACRAMENTO – Senate Republican Leader Shannon Grove ( R-Bakersfield ) has introduced an amendment to Assembly Bill 5 that would offer parity across the board and protect independent contractors. Legislative Democrats are advocating for AB 5 which is a measure that will harm tens of thousands of independent contractors by making it difficult for them to keep their employment status. Furthermore, AB 5 offers carve-outs to some industries that employ independent contractors and excludes others.

If Senator Grove’s amendment is defeated, members of the California Senate Republican Caucus have offered additional amendments to protect independent contractors. Those additional amendments will cover industries such as franchisees, newspapers distributors, physical therapists, and many others that are excluded from AB 5. (See full list below).

Senator Grove released the following statement:

“Senate Republicans are committed to helping those working individuals who need the freedom and flexibility of independent contracting work. Legislative Democrats have excluded multiple industries that employ tens of thousands of hardworking independent contractors who may no longer be able to pursue their career of choice.

“Single mothers and students who choose to be independent contractors are going to lose their freedom of choice that allows them to work when they can. Hardworking Californians will suffer because of the Democrats’ onerous legislation,” said Senate Republican Leader Shannon Grove.

The U.S. Chamber of Commerce has released a letter in opposition of AB 5 stating that “the bill as written threatens to undermine longstanding business relationships…”

Senate Republicans’ Amendments include the following industries:

Healthcare facilities include companies that employed healthcare providers such as skilled nursing facilities.

Design industry includes landscape architects, geologists, geophysicists, veterinarians, accountants, land surveyors, and others.

Franchisors and franchisees of Cinnabon, IHOP; Pizza Hut; Marriott; KFC, Jack in the Box; Taco Bell and others.

Physical therapists

Interpreters and translators

Motor Clubs such as the American Automobile Association (AAA).

Newspapers carriers and distributors

Single-truck owner-operators

Forestry industry such as engineers, licensed timber operators, and others.

Capitol Office

1021 O Street, Room 7150 Sacramento, CA 95814 Phone: (916) 651-4012 Fax: (916) 651-4916

Bakersfield Office

5701 Truxtun Ave., Suite 150 Bakersfield, CA 93309 Phone: (661) 323-0443 Fax: (661) 323-0446

Fresno Office

567 W. Shaw Ave., Suite A-3 Fresno, CA 93704 Phone:  559-243-8580

facebook Facebook

twitter Twitter

instagram Instagram

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

Home

About Shannon Biography Committees 12th Senate District Map

Biography

Committees

12th Senate District Map

Legislation My Legislation Bill Search Submit a Legislative Proposal

My Legislation

Bill Search

Submit a Legislative Proposal

Newsroom Releases / Editorials Photos

Releases / Editorials

Photos

Resources California Senate Fellows Program Coronavirus Information Education Register to Vote Unclaimed Property Veteran Resources

California Senate Fellows Program

Coronavirus Information

Education

Register to Vote

Unclaimed Property

Veteran Resources

Contact me My Offices E-mail the Senator Subscribe

My Offices

E-mail the Senator

Subscribe

Senate Republicans Introduce Amendments to Protect Thousands of Independent Contractor

More News

View All

Breadcrumb

Aug 29
Senator Shannon Grove Celebrates Advancement of Key Bills for Special Education and Rural Healthcare, Expresses Disappointment Over Scrapping of Leno’s Law
Aug 27
VIDEO: Celebrity advocate Paris Hilton calls for passage of child protection measure ahead of key vote
Aug 25
Senator Shannon Grove and Assemblyman David Tangipa  Honor Retired NFL Quarterback, Derek Carr
Aug 21
Senator Shannon Grove opposes Democrats' attempt to override the will of California voters