Today, California Democrat lawmakers on the Senate Environmental Committee rejected a measure by Senate Minority Leader Brian W. Jones (R-San Diego) to lower gas prices by $1 per gallon immediately. Leader Jones’s bill would suspend state gas taxes and fees, which would result in the immediate price reduction.

“California Democrat lawmakers supposedly claim they care about high prices at the pump,” said Leader Jones . “But when given the opportunity to immediately cut costs by $1 per gallon of gas, these Democrat lawmakers are too selfish to suspend state taxes and fees to help Californians who are struggling to make ends meet. Our measure has bipartisan support across the country—even President Biden came out in favor of states suspending their gas taxes. When prices skyrocket to over $5 per gallon this summer, thank a Capitol Democrat for selfishly refusing to take action and passing my bill.”

As of April 19, 2023, gas prices in California are $4.92 , which is over $1 more per gallon of gas than the national average. While Governor Newsom jammed through his proposal that will increase gas prices by raising gas taxes, Leader Jones offered an alternative approach to actually lower gas prices. Leader Jones’s Senate Bill 32 would suspend the state’s gas taxes and fees to lower gas prices by $1 per gallon. This would bring immediate relief to Californians at the pump when many are struggling to afford high gas prices.

Specifically, SB 32 suspends $1 per gallon of state gas taxes and fees for one year. Current programs—with the exclusion of the High Speed Rail—will continue receiving funding from these taxes and fees by being backfilled from the General Fund. This measure requires the $1 per gallon in savings to be applied directly to the consumer. SB 32 is coauthored by the entire California Senate Republican Caucus.

The 2-3 vote that stalled SB 32 fell along party lines with Senators Brian Dahle (R-Bieber) and Janet Nguyen (R- Huntington Beach) voting in favor of the measure while Senators Lena Gonzalez (D-Long Beach), Caroline Menjivar (D-San Fernando Valley), and Nancy Skinner (D- Berkeley) voted no. Senators Ben Allen (D-Santa Monica) and Monique Limón (D-Santa Barbara) did not vote. SB 32 was granted “reconsideration,” so it can be brought up again for a second vote before April 28th.

What they said in the Senate Environmental Quality Committee

“You’re [Leader Jones] right to bring up the fact that this [gas tax] is a part of the gas cost too and I know you [Leader Jones] are trying to highlight that issue with this bill.” – Senator Ben Allen

“I appreciate you [Leader Jones] for bringing the bill forward to have the conversation…I think we need to have this conversation to actually try to drive the costs down for Californians” –Senator Brian Dahle

Capitol Office

1021 O Street, Room 7640 Sacramento, CA 95814 Phone: (916) 651-4040 Fax: (916) 651-4940

Scripps Ranch Office

10650 Treena Street #110 San Diego, CA 92131 Phone: (858) 547-3818

Escondido Office

720 N. Broadway, Suite 110 Escondido, CA 92025 Phone: (760) 796-4655

facebook Facebook

twitter Twitter

instagram Instagram

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

Home

About Brian Biography

Biography

Legislation My Legislation Committees Bill Search

My Legislation

Committees

Bill Search

Newsroom Releases/Editorials In The News Audio/Video Are You Kidding Me? Photos Media Kit

Releases/Editorials

In The News

Audio/Video

Are You Kidding Me?

Photos

Media Kit

Contact Me Certificate Request District Internship Program District Map E-mail the Senator Legislative Proposal My Offices Subscribe to the Mailing List

Certificate Request

District Internship Program

District Map

E-mail the Senator

Legislative Proposal

My Offices

Subscribe to the Mailing List

Senate Democrat-Majority Committee Rejects Legislation to Lower Gas Prices $1/Gallon

More News

ICYMI

View All

Breadcrumb

Aug 6
California Republicans’ Growing Impact on Social Media
Jul 16
Leader Jones Stands on Steps of the Capitol Opposing the Anti-Charter School Bill
Jul 16
AB 84 Charter Schools Press Conference
Jul 15
Leader Jones Demands Accountability on Dangerous Sexually Violent Predator Program

Jun 17
2025
$8-a-gallon gas? Senate Minority Leader Brian W. Jones requests audit of gas price hikes
Jun 9
2025
Nixed bill could have prevented LA unrest, California minority leader says
Jun 8
2025
California lawmaker warns Menendez brothers' case is driving return of bill to release thousands of killers
Jun 3
2025
Ramona nonprofit, resident recognized with Senate District 40 awards