Senator Shannon Grove ( R-Bakersfield ) is proud to announce the introduction of Senate Bill 375 , landmark legislation aimed at enhancing emergency response efforts and ensuring California communities are better prepared to mitigate wildfire threats. This critical measure will remove regulatory hurdles in the California Endangered Species Act, California Environmental Quality Act and The California Coastal Act.

"Wildfires have devastated communities across our state, leaving countless families displaced and businesses struggling to recover. SB 375 is a step forward in ensuring that our local agencies have the necessary tools and resources to reduce fire risks while protecting our environment and wildlife," said Senator Grove . "We must act swiftly to streamline wildfire preparedness efforts before we have another historic wildfire that devastates entire communities."

SB 375 establishes a framework for local agencies to submit wildfire preparedness plans that prioritize vegetation management and other fire mitigation activities within fire hazard severity zones. These efforts are designed to reduce the risk of catastrophic wildfires while ensuring that endangered and threatened species are protected through science-backed conservation measures.

The bill requires the California Department of Fish and Wildlife to work closely with local agencies, providing clear guidance on incidental take permits and environmental compliance, ensuring that wildfire mitigation projects can proceed without unnecessary delays. Additionally, SB 375 mandates transparency by requiring annual updates on wildfire preparedness plans and their effectiveness in preventing future disasters.

"California’s wildfire crisis demands immediate and continuous action. SB 375 provides a comprehensive approach to wildfire preparedness, cutting bureaucratic red tape, and delivering real solutions to protect lives, homes, and our natural resources," added Senator Grove.

Senator Grove emphasized the importance of bipartisan cooperation in tackling the wildfire crisis : "This bill is about putting people first—ensuring that those threatened by wildfires receive the help they need while proactively preventing future disasters. I urge my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to join me in passing SB 375 and taking decisive action to protect our communities."

SB 375 is currently awaiting committee referral.

Capitol Office

1021 O Street, Room 7150 Sacramento, CA 95814 Phone: (916) 651-4012 Fax: (916) 651-4916

Bakersfield Office

5701 Truxtun Ave., Suite 150 Bakersfield, CA 93309 Phone: (661) 323-0443 Fax: (661) 323-0446

Fresno Office

567 W. Shaw Ave., Suite A-3 Fresno, CA 93704 Phone:  559-243-8580

facebook Facebook

twitter Twitter

instagram Instagram

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

Home

About Shannon Biography Committees 12th Senate District Map

Biography

Committees

12th Senate District Map

Legislation My Legislation Bill Search Submit a Legislative Proposal

My Legislation

Bill Search

Submit a Legislative Proposal

Newsroom Releases / Editorials Photos

Releases / Editorials

Photos

Resources California Senate Fellows Program Coronavirus Information Education Register to Vote Unclaimed Property Veteran Resources

California Senate Fellows Program

Coronavirus Information

Education

Register to Vote

Unclaimed Property

Veteran Resources

Contact me My Offices E-mail the Senator Subscribe

My Offices

E-mail the Senator

Subscribe

Senator Shannon Grove Introduces Legislation to Strengthen Wildfire Preparedness Efforts

More News

View All

Breadcrumb

Aug 29
Senator Shannon Grove Celebrates Advancement of Key Bills for Special Education and Rural Healthcare, Expresses Disappointment Over Scrapping of Leno’s Law
Aug 27
VIDEO: Celebrity advocate Paris Hilton calls for passage of child protection measure ahead of key vote
Aug 25
Senator Shannon Grove and Assemblyman David Tangipa  Honor Retired NFL Quarterback, Derek Carr
Aug 21
Senator Shannon Grove opposes Democrats' attempt to override the will of California voters