Leader Jones presents Marcie Laws-Hayes and her son Evan on the Senate Floor with an official certificate recognigizing Archie's Pantry as the 2025 Nonprofit of the Year for Senate District 40.

Senate Minority Leader Brian W. Jones ( R-San Diego ) proudly recognizes Archie’s Pantry in Ramona as the 2025 Nonprofit of the Year for Senate District 40.

Leader Jones welcomed Archie’s Pantry founder Marcie Laws-Hayes to the Senate Floor and presented her with an official Senate certificate honoring the organization’s extraordinary service and dedication to the Ramona community and beyond.

“Archie’s Pantry is a remarkable example of neighbors helping neighbors with dignity, kindness, and compassion,” said Leader Jones . “From clothing and food to school supplies and job training, their work reaches across generations to support those who need it most.”

Operated by Friends of Generations, Inc., a 501(c)(3) nonprofit based in Ramona, Archie’s Pantry offers a wide range of essential items—including clothing, shoes, baby supplies, household goods, toiletries, food, toys, books, and more—through its community thrift store. The organization follows a “take what you need, give what you can” model, ensuring that support is available in a welcoming and respectful environment.

In addition to the thrift store, Archie’s Pantry leads a variety of community initiatives, including:

Support for local schools, including donations of snacks, sweatshirts, hygiene products, and care packages;

Holiday programs like Easter baskets and a free Christmas Market for families;

Classroom care boxes stocked with school supplies, snacks, and personal items for students;

Job training and employment for adults with intellectual and developmental disabilities through a partnership with Generations Day Care.

“This recognition is a true honor for our entire team and community,” said Marcie Laws-Hayes, founder of Archie’s Pantry. “Our goal has always been to provide a welcoming place where people can find the support they need, and where everyone’s contributions—big or small—make a difference.”

“Marcie and her team have created something truly special,” added Leader Jones. “Archie’s Pantry not only meets everyday needs, it uplifts the entire community and helps people move forward with dignity and hope.”

Each year, California legislators select a Nonprofit of the Year from their district to highlight during California Nonprofits Day at the State Capitol. Leader Jones selected Archie’s Pantry for its compassionate programs, focus on community empowerment, and lasting impact in the region.

Capitol Office

1021 O Street, Room 7640 Sacramento, CA 95814 Phone: (916) 651-4040 Fax: (916) 651-4940

Scripps Ranch Office

10650 Treena Street #110 San Diego, CA 92131 Phone: (858) 547-3818

Escondido Office

720 N. Broadway, Suite 110 Escondido, CA 92025 Phone: (760) 796-4655

facebook Facebook

twitter Twitter

instagram Instagram

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

Home

About Brian Biography

Biography

Legislation My Legislation Committees Bill Search

My Legislation

Committees

Bill Search

Newsroom Releases/Editorials In The News Audio/Video Are You Kidding Me? Photos Media Kit

Releases/Editorials

In The News

Audio/Video

Are You Kidding Me?

Photos

Media Kit

Contact Me Certificate Request District Internship Program District Map E-mail the Senator Legislative Proposal My Offices Subscribe to the Mailing List

Certificate Request

District Internship Program

District Map

E-mail the Senator

Legislative Proposal

My Offices

Subscribe to the Mailing List

Senate Minority Leader Brian Jones Honors Archie’s Pantry as Senate District 40 Nonprofit of the Year

More News

ICYMI

View All

Breadcrumb

Aug 6
California Republicans’ Growing Impact on Social Media
Jul 16
Leader Jones Stands on Steps of the Capitol Opposing the Anti-Charter School Bill
Jul 16
AB 84 Charter Schools Press Conference
Jul 15
Leader Jones Demands Accountability on Dangerous Sexually Violent Predator Program

Jun 17
2025
$8-a-gallon gas? Senate Minority Leader Brian W. Jones requests audit of gas price hikes
Jun 9
2025
Nixed bill could have prevented LA unrest, California minority leader says
Jun 8
2025
California lawmaker warns Menendez brothers' case is driving return of bill to release thousands of killers
Jun 3
2025
Ramona nonprofit, resident recognized with Senate District 40 awards