SACRAMENTO – Senate Republican Leader Shannon Grove (R-Bakersfield) has issued the following statement after an announcement was made by the U.S. Bureau of Reclamation that the process to repair the Friant-Kern Canal has begun:

“The Friant-Kern Canal plays a key role in the economy of the Central Valley, including providing water to one million acres of farmland in Tulare and Kern counties. Restoring the canal will support our farmers who put food on America’s table, increase our water supply, and benefit the environment by helping recharge our aquifers.

"This investment is a necessary first step in addressing the severe water crisis in California. I am thankful the Federal Administration has made our Central Valley water a priority. It's time for the state Legislature to prioritize it as well," said Senate Republican Leader Shannon Grove.

Earlier this year, Senate Republican Leader Grove coauthored Senate Bill 559 , which would have provided funding for the restoration of the Friant-Kern Canal. The bill was held by Democrats in the Assembly Appropriations Committee.

The Bureau of Reclamation announced yesterday that public comments may now be submitted on its plans to repair the Friant-Kern Canal. The canal has lost over 50 percent of its original capacity due to design deficiencies and land subsidence. The purpose of the proposed project is to restore the capacity of the canal’s Middle Reach as it was constructed.

Capitol Office

1021 O Street, Room 7150 Sacramento, CA 95814 Phone: (916) 651-4012 Fax: (916) 651-4916

Bakersfield Office

5701 Truxtun Ave., Suite 150 Bakersfield, CA 93309 Phone: (661) 323-0443 Fax: (661) 323-0446

Fresno Office

567 W. Shaw Ave., Suite A-3 Fresno, CA 93704 Phone:  559-243-8580

facebook Facebook

twitter Twitter

instagram Instagram

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

Home

About Shannon Biography Committees 12th Senate District Map

Biography

Committees

12th Senate District Map

Legislation My Legislation Bill Search Submit a Legislative Proposal

My Legislation

Bill Search

Submit a Legislative Proposal

Newsroom Releases / Editorials Photos

Releases / Editorials

Photos

Resources California Senate Fellows Program Coronavirus Information Education Register to Vote Unclaimed Property Veteran Resources

California Senate Fellows Program

Coronavirus Information

Education

Register to Vote

Unclaimed Property

Veteran Resources

Contact me My Offices E-mail the Senator Subscribe

My Offices

E-mail the Senator

Subscribe

Senate Republican Leader Grove Responds to Announcement of Friant-Kern Canal Restoration Project

More News

View All

Breadcrumb

Aug 29
Senator Shannon Grove Celebrates Advancement of Key Bills for Special Education and Rural Healthcare, Expresses Disappointment Over Scrapping of Leno’s Law
Aug 27
VIDEO: Celebrity advocate Paris Hilton calls for passage of child protection measure ahead of key vote
Aug 25
Senator Shannon Grove and Assemblyman David Tangipa  Honor Retired NFL Quarterback, Derek Carr
Aug 21
Senator Shannon Grove opposes Democrats' attempt to override the will of California voters