Senator Rosilicie Ochoa Bogh (R-Yucaipa) is proud to announce that Celi Orozco and Halle Aldrich, residents of Senate District 23, have been selected to receive a 2024 Minerva Scholarship.

“I am truly overjoyed to support scholarship opportunities, especially those that empower women through higher education,” said Senator Ochoa Bogh, Vice Chair of the Senate Education Committee . “Education is such a priceless gift. I am incredibly proud of Celi and Halle for their leadership, determination, and resilience. I eagerly look forward to seeing you reach your educational goals and positively impact your communities. Congratulations!”

Celi is a dedicated leader and community advocate from the city of Menifee. As a Female Wrestler at Paloma Valley High School, she mentored new athletes, helping them build confidence. She served as Secretary of the Latin Culture Club and the Interact Club, organizing events and volunteer opportunities. At UC Berkeley, Celi contributed to the Medical Journal, interviewed researchers, and volunteered with the Red Cross and Raices Retention Center, encouraging students of color to pursue higher education. Her diverse roles showcase her commitment to service and leadership. Celi is approaching her 2 nd year attending the University of California, Berkeley, where she is pursuing her Bachelor’s Degree in Molecular and Cell Biology.

Halle, a Yucaipa resident, is an emerging leader with a history of impactful roles in various settings. In high school, she demonstrated her leadership skills as the Captain of the basketball team. Currently, she is the kitchen shift lead at a camp, overseeing operations and ensuring smooth service. Additionally, during the spring 2024 semester, Halle was selected as a 'Squad Leader' in an EMT Program, standing out among over 40 students. In this role, she was responsible for preparing her peers for skills stations, maintaining uniform standards, ensuring appropriate behavior, and showcasing her organizational and leadership abilities. Halle will attend the University of California, Irvine, as a junior in the fall. There, she plans to major in Biological Sciences and minor in Medical Humanities.

WiCL Minerva Scholarship is awarded to eligible female students admitted to or currently enrolled at an accredited college or university. The winners are selected from a highly competitive pool based on their intellectual energy, scholastic achievement, community involvement, and work history. The scholarships are distributed by Women in California Leadership (WiCL) in collaboration with the California Legislative Women’s Caucus.

Capitol Office

1021 O Street, Room 7220 Sacramento, CA 95814 Phone: (916) 651-4019 Fax: (916) 651-4919

Redlands Office

1758 Orange Tree Lane, Suite B Redlands, CA 92374 Phone: (909) 335-0271 Fax: (909) 335-0282

facebook Facebook

twitter Twitter

instagram Instagram

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

Home

About Rosilicie My Legislation Current Legislation Legislative Accomplishments 2024 Legislative Accomplishments 2023 Legislative Accomplishments 2022-21 Bill Search Committees Biography

My Legislation Current Legislation Legislative Accomplishments 2024 Legislative Accomplishments 2023 Legislative Accomplishments 2022-21 Bill Search

Current Legislation

Legislative Accomplishments 2024

Legislative Accomplishments 2023

Legislative Accomplishments 2022-21

Bill Search

Committees

Biography

District District Map Virtual Insurance Town Hall Virtual PSPS Town Hall Wildfire Resources

District Map

Virtual Insurance Town Hall

Virtual PSPS Town Hall

Wildfire Resources

Newsroom Releases/Editorials

Releases/Editorials

Contact Me Constituent Services E-mail the Senator Look Ahead Mobile Office Hours My Offices State Agencies Subscribe

Constituent Services

E-mail the Senator

Look Ahead

Mobile Office Hours

My Offices

State Agencies

Subscribe

Senator Ochoa Bogh Congratulates the 2024 Minerva Scholarship Recipients Selected from Senate District 23

Breadcrumb