Senator Shannon Grove (R-Bakersfield) announced that her bill Senate Bill 550 has passed unanimously through the Senate Natural Resources Committee. SB 550 would analyze the uncertainties and delays in the state’s process of water trading and close information gaps on the supply of water. SB 550 also assesses trends, barriers to entry and how a better understanding of water markets could assist in our state’s water-resilience efforts.
Water trading could help farmers, environmentalists and urban water users by allowing water markets to operate more efficiently. Water trading has the potential for increasing water supplies by allowing water rights holders to divert water to the places where it is needed most.
“The time is now to pursue every method to boost water supplies,” said Senator Grove. “Our state knows that the water we’ve been receiving won’t last forever. Water trading ensures that when the supply dwindles, we’re managing our water resources responsibly.”
The state currently allows water trading, but it is a convoluted process. Under the current framework, it can take 18 months or longer before a proposed trade, by a rights holder, leads to an actual trade. A Public Policy Institute of California report states, “Uncertainty and delays could be reduced by improving information about water availability and how much can be traded without unduly harming the environment or other legal water users."
“The process needs to be streamlined—currently, it takes up to eighteen months or longer for a water trade to be completed,” said Senator Grove. “By the time our growers and local districts receive their water, they’ll miss their opportunity to use it.”
The next hearing for SB 550 will be held on April 10 in Senate Appropriations.

Capitol Office

1021 O Street, Room 7150 Sacramento, CA 95814 Phone: (916) 651-4012 Fax: (916) 651-4916

Bakersfield Office

5701 Truxtun Ave., Suite 150 Bakersfield, CA 93309 Phone: (661) 323-0443 Fax: (661) 323-0446

Fresno Office

567 W. Shaw Ave., Suite A-3 Fresno, CA 93704 Phone:  559-243-8580

facebook Facebook

twitter Twitter

instagram Instagram

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

Home

About Shannon Biography Committees 12th Senate District Map

Biography

Committees

12th Senate District Map

Legislation My Legislation Bill Search Submit a Legislative Proposal

My Legislation

Bill Search

Submit a Legislative Proposal

Newsroom Releases / Editorials Photos

Releases / Editorials

Photos

Resources California Senate Fellows Program Coronavirus Information Education Register to Vote Unclaimed Property Veteran Resources

California Senate Fellows Program

Coronavirus Information

Education

Register to Vote

Unclaimed Property

Veteran Resources

Contact me My Offices E-mail the Senator Subscribe

My Offices

E-mail the Senator

Subscribe

Senator Grove’s Bill to Streamline Water Allocations, Passes Senate Natural Resources

More News

View All

Breadcrumb

Aug 29
Senator Shannon Grove Celebrates Advancement of Key Bills for Special Education and Rural Healthcare, Expresses Disappointment Over Scrapping of Leno’s Law
Aug 27
VIDEO: Celebrity advocate Paris Hilton calls for passage of child protection measure ahead of key vote
Aug 25
Senator Shannon Grove and Assemblyman David Tangipa  Honor Retired NFL Quarterback, Derek Carr
Aug 21
Senator Shannon Grove opposes Democrats' attempt to override the will of California voters