Senator Shannon Grove (R-Bakersfield) today announced the introduction of SB 13 to encourage the ethical use of oil in California which would help lower the price of gasoline and improve our energy security.

“California has placed our energy security into the hands of countries that are actively hostile to our state’s values when it comes to human rights, labor rights, and environmental rights,” said Senator Grove. “We need an ethically coherent approach to our energy production, and that starts with ensuring our oil is produced responsibly and maximizing our domestic production right here in California.”

California currently produces about 340,000 barrels of oil per day, of the state’s 1.45 million barrel daily need. About 45 percent of California’s oil imports come directly from the Amazon Rainforest in Ecuador, Brazil, Guyana, and Colombia. California should not be paying for the destruction of the Amazon Rainforest when that oil could instead come from inside California, produced by responsible, accountable, and highly regulated California oil companies.

SB 13 would implore the Legislature to realize that much of the crude oil imported into California comes from foreign nations with demonstrated human rights abuses, or foreign nations that have environmental standards lower than those in California. The measure would also require the Air Resources Board to report on its website the amount of particulate matter released into the air from the 600 tanker ships that import oil into the state in an effort to highlight the air quality impact from the state’s dependence on foreign oil.

“Much of the oil we import could be replaced by California’s in-state producers, providing California jobs, if we were allowed to expand production,” said Senator Grove. “Why would we import millions of barrels of oil from countries hostile to our values when we can produce climate compliant oil right here, while creating good paying jobs and improving our energy supply?”

The bill would require the Energy Commission to include in the breakdown of taxes and fees associated with a gallon of gas the cost to ship oil to California. Studies have shown that this adds $5 to $6 to the cost of a barrel of oil, or about 30 cents per gallon of gasoline.

“It is common sense that sending oil through a pipeline from Kern County to a Los Angeles refinery is a safer, and cheaper, way to produce gasoline in California,” said Senator Grove. “Expanding domestic oil production would remove the need for hundreds of polluting tanker ships to deliver oil to California, lower the cost of gasoline, and create good jobs for Californians.

Capitol Office

1021 O Street, Room 7150 Sacramento, CA 95814 Phone: (916) 651-4012 Fax: (916) 651-4916

Bakersfield Office

5701 Truxtun Ave., Suite 150 Bakersfield, CA 93309 Phone: (661) 323-0443 Fax: (661) 323-0446

Fresno Office

567 W. Shaw Ave., Suite A-3 Fresno, CA 93704 Phone:  559-243-8580

facebook Facebook

twitter Twitter

instagram Instagram

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

Home

About Shannon Biography Committees 12th Senate District Map

Biography

Committees

12th Senate District Map

Legislation My Legislation Bill Search Submit a Legislative Proposal

My Legislation

Bill Search

Submit a Legislative Proposal

Newsroom Releases / Editorials Photos

Releases / Editorials

Photos

Resources California Senate Fellows Program Coronavirus Information Education Register to Vote Unclaimed Property Veteran Resources

California Senate Fellows Program

Coronavirus Information

Education

Register to Vote

Unclaimed Property

Veteran Resources

Contact me My Offices E-mail the Senator Subscribe

My Offices

E-mail the Senator

Subscribe

Senator Grove Announces Introduction of Ethical Energy Bill

More News

View All

Breadcrumb

Aug 29
Senator Shannon Grove Celebrates Advancement of Key Bills for Special Education and Rural Healthcare, Expresses Disappointment Over Scrapping of Leno’s Law
Aug 27
VIDEO: Celebrity advocate Paris Hilton calls for passage of child protection measure ahead of key vote
Aug 25
Senator Shannon Grove and Assemblyman David Tangipa  Honor Retired NFL Quarterback, Derek Carr
Aug 21
Senator Shannon Grove opposes Democrats' attempt to override the will of California voters