Senator Shannon Grove (R-Bakersfield) and celebrity advocate Paris Hilton celebrated a major milestone today as SB 373 , aimed at improving safeguards for nonpublic school students, passed unanimously out of the Assembly Education Committee. This bipartisan measure, sponsored by Hilton’s nonprofit 11:11 Media Impact would help protect California’s most vulnerable youth in nonpublic schools.

Certified Nonpublic Schools (NPSs) are private institutions that serve public school students with disabilities whose needs cannot be met in a traditional classroom. These schools are funded by local school districts and overseen by the California Department of Education (CDE), which certifies NPSs to ensure they meet baseline standards for student care and instruction.

In recent years, the state has taken steps to stop placing foster youth in out-of-state facilities after widespread reports of mistreatment. Yet under the IEP process, students with disabilities can still be placed in the very same institutions — some of which have troubling safety records. Nearly 300 California students with disabilities remain in out-of-state placements today, often far from home and without the same level of oversight provided to other youth.

“I am pleased to announce that my bill SB 373, a bipartisan bill to strengthen protections for California’s most vulnerable students in out-of-state nonpublic schools, has passed the Assembly Education Committee,” said Senator Shannon Grove. “With nearly 300 California children still in these facilities, often far from home and under limited oversight, this legislation is a critical step forward. The state must ensure the safety, well-being, and dignity of these students through consistent oversight, clear accountability, and strong protections. I am grateful for the support of Paris Hilton, 11:11 Media and the incredible advocates who testified in support today. Every child deserves to feel safe, supported, and valued, regardless of their needs.”

“So excited to share that one of my bills, SB 373 with Senator Shannon Grove, has passed the CA Assembly Education Committee,” said Paris Hilton. “This bipartisan bill strengthens protections for vulnerable children who are sent to out-of-state schools by their school district. It creates stronger safeguards for students with disabilities, and it gives families the tools to finally advocate for themselves. I am thankful for the support of Chair Muratsuchi and all of the committee members who voted to support California children. The survivor community is so grateful that you are listening to our stories and taking action!”

Senate Bill 373 will now move forward to the Assembly Appropriations Committee for the bill’s last committee hearing that will take place at the end of August. For more information, follow @ShannonGroveCA.

Capitol Office

1021 O Street, Room 7150 Sacramento, CA 95814 Phone: (916) 651-4012 Fax: (916) 651-4916

Bakersfield Office

5701 Truxtun Ave., Suite 150 Bakersfield, CA 93309 Phone: (661) 323-0443 Fax: (661) 323-0446

Fresno Office

567 W. Shaw Ave., Suite A-3 Fresno, CA 93704 Phone:  559-243-8580

facebook Facebook

twitter Twitter

instagram Instagram

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

Home

About Shannon Biography Committees 12th Senate District Map

Biography

Committees

12th Senate District Map

Legislation My Legislation Bill Search Submit a Legislative Proposal

My Legislation

Bill Search

Submit a Legislative Proposal

Newsroom Releases / Editorials Photos

Releases / Editorials

Photos

Resources California Senate Fellows Program Coronavirus Information Education Register to Vote Unclaimed Property Veteran Resources

California Senate Fellows Program

Coronavirus Information

Education

Register to Vote

Unclaimed Property

Veteran Resources

Contact me My Offices E-mail the Senator Subscribe

My Offices

E-mail the Senator

Subscribe

Senator Shannon Grove and Paris Hilton celebrate their children’s protection bill passing Assembly Education Committee

More News

View All

Breadcrumb

Aug 29
Senator Shannon Grove Celebrates Advancement of Key Bills for Special Education and Rural Healthcare, Expresses Disappointment Over Scrapping of Leno’s Law
Aug 27
VIDEO: Celebrity advocate Paris Hilton calls for passage of child protection measure ahead of key vote
Aug 25
Senator Shannon Grove and Assemblyman David Tangipa  Honor Retired NFL Quarterback, Derek Carr
Aug 21
Senator Shannon Grove opposes Democrats' attempt to override the will of California voters