This afternoon, Senator Steven Choi (R-Irvine) welcomed community leaders, cultural organizations, and elected officials to the historic Leland Stanford Mansion in Sacramento for a festival celebrating Soju and Korean culture. Senator Choi officially proclaimed September 20 th as “Soju Day” in recognition of Korea’s iconic traditional distilled spirit, soju, and its growing cultural significance in the United States.

The resolution raised awareness and appreciation of Korean tradition, supported cultural exchange, and promoted the Korean American community’s contributions to the state’s vibrant multicultural identity.

To commemorate the resolution, a special event and cultural festival was held, featuring soju tasting, Korean cultural performances, and community celebration. The event brought together a diverse attendance to honor the heritage and global popularity of soju.

“Soju is about Korean heritage, culture, and community bonds,” said Senator Steven Choi . “It has become an emblem of unity, celebration, and tradition for Korean Americans, serving as a bridge of cultural exchange and enhancing cross-cultural understanding in our diverse society.”

Another important aspect of the day was recognizing Assembly Bill 2069 (2023-2024) , Sale of soju and shochu. The bill authorized beer and wine license holders to sell soju and shochu without requiring a special liquor license. Senator Choi had introduced similar legislation in a prior session and was pleased to have Assemblymember Gallagher take up the torch and secure passage of the bill.

See photos from today’s events here .

Capitol

District

3200 El Camino Real, Suite 230 Irvine, CA 92602 Phone: (714) 544-1035

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

<d

Home

About Dr. Choi Biography Committees

Biography

Committees

Legislation

Newsroom Releases / Opinions Important Updates Audio / Video Photo Gallery

Releases / Opinions

Important Updates

Audio / Video

Photo Gallery

Contact Me District Internship Program District Map Email the Senator My Offices

District Internship Program

District Map

Email the Senator

My Offices

Senator Choi’s Soju Festival a Success

Breadcrumb