Senator Tony Strickland ( R-Huntington Beach ) joined with members of the Senate Republican Caucus to deliver a letter to the chair of the Senate Budget and Fiscal Review Committee outlining the caucus’ statewide budget priorities. The list of priorities include advancing safer neighborhoods with full implementation of Proposition 36, helping job creators by reducing the government-imposed unemployment debt, and improving water storage to ensure there is water in the fire hydrants when the next firestorm breaks. Click HERE to read the letter and learn more about Senator Strickland’s priorities.

“California families have to live within their means and so should Sacramento Democrats and Governor Newsom who have mismanaged this state for the past decade and more,” said Senator Strickland . “I promised my constituents when I ran for the state senate that I would bring surf city common sense to Sacramento and every day I am fighting for my constituents to ensure that your tax dollars are spent effectively.”

Below are excerpts from the letter :

… "Taxpayers should be concerned about mismanagement of the budget in recent years. Governor Newsom’s administration just announced a $3.4 billion loan was necessary to cover a shortfall in the Medi-Cal program. Another $2.8 billion is reportedly needed as well through a supplemental appropriation. …

… "If California manages its funds properly, there should be more than enough money to address the priorities outlined in this letter. Senate Republicans stand ready to help fix California and get our state out of the spiraling cycle of budget deficits projected for years to come." …

Capitol:

District Office:

301 Main Street, Suite 212 Huntington Beach, CA 92648 (714) 374-4000

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

<d

Home

About Tony Biography Committees

Biography

Committees

Newsroom Releases / Opinions Newsletters Audio / Video Photos

Releases / Opinions

Newsletters

Audio / Video

Photos

Contact Me District Map My Offices Scheduling Requests

District Map

My Offices

Scheduling Requests

Senator Strickland outlines commonsense budget priorities

Breadcrumb