Today, Senator Rosilicie Ochoa Bogh ( R- Yucaipa ) successfully gained approval for two measures that work to tackle the fentanyl crisis that has plagued California communities for years.

Senate Bill 1442 and Senate Bill 1468 authored by Senator Ochoa Bogh together will have a direct and immediate impact on the streets of California where so many of our young people are dying each day from fentanyl poisoning.

“As a mother, it’s heartbreaking to listen to families describe the tragic deaths of their loved ones. I appreciate the Senate’s efforts to join together and fight against these senseless deaths,” said Senator Ochoa Bogh. “The opioid crisis doesn’t know political boundaries, and neither should the fight we lead against it as lawmakers. I thank my colleagues for their willingness to stand against this crisis today and support my efforts."

SB 1442 will allow the state to produce and distribute fentanyl tests to healthcare providers throughout California. By ensuring that more providers – particularly community health partners – can test for fentanyl use as soon as possible, California will expand its efforts to reduce fentanyl overdoses.

SB 1468 will expand access to detoxification and maintenance treatment for individuals struggling with opioid addiction, leading to better treatment retention and fewer overdose deaths.

“Fighting the fentanyl crisis is one of the most urgent challenges facing our state today,” said Senator Kelly Seyarto ( R-Murrieta ), a former first responder and Vice Chair of the Senate Public Safety Committee. “It's crucial that we take every possible measure to ensure the safety and well-being of our communities. These measures begin to provide support and prevention strategies, essential for saving lives and mitigating the devastating impact of this drug. Subsequently, we will have to continue to create an overall strategy that will address this issue and ensure that we are measuring participation and outcomes so that we can be assured that we are not just throwing money at ineffective solutions.”

Last year, Senator Seyarto authored SB 19 to establish the California Fentanyl Task Force . Signed into law, this measure will help identify tools needed to keep communities safe and control the distribution of this deadly drug.

Both measures are monumental efforts that passed the full Senate today and will now move to the Assembly.

Capitol Office

1021 O Street, Room 7220 Sacramento, CA 95814 Phone: (916) 651-4019 Fax: (916) 651-4919

Redlands Office

1758 Orange Tree Lane, Suite B Redlands, CA 92374 Phone: (909) 335-0271 Fax: (909) 335-0282

facebook Facebook

twitter Twitter

instagram Instagram

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

Home

About Rosilicie My Legislation Current Legislation Legislative Accomplishments 2024 Legislative Accomplishments 2023 Legislative Accomplishments 2022-21 Bill Search Committees Biography

My Legislation Current Legislation Legislative Accomplishments 2024 Legislative Accomplishments 2023 Legislative Accomplishments 2022-21 Bill Search

Current Legislation

Legislative Accomplishments 2024

Legislative Accomplishments 2023

Legislative Accomplishments 2022-21

Bill Search

Committees

Biography

District District Map Virtual Insurance Town Hall Virtual PSPS Town Hall Wildfire Resources

District Map

Virtual Insurance Town Hall

Virtual PSPS Town Hall

Wildfire Resources

Newsroom Releases/Editorials

Releases/Editorials

Contact Me Constituent Services E-mail the Senator Look Ahead Mobile Office Hours My Offices State Agencies Subscribe

Constituent Services

E-mail the Senator

Look Ahead

Mobile Office Hours

My Offices

State Agencies

Subscribe

Senate approves Senator Ochoa Bogh’s bills to fight fentanyl crisis

Breadcrumb