Senator Shannon Grove (R-Bakersfield) has introduced Senate Bill 1484 to help address the worsening homeless crisis in California while also creating a prosperous business climate and encourage job growth. SB 1484 is part of the Assembly and Senate Republicans “ACT on Homelessness” legislative package to address homelessness with a multifaceted and comprehensive approach.

While Sacramento Democrats and the governor have thrown $17 billion at the homeless crisis over the past four years, the problem has only gotten worse. Republican solutions emphasize results by demanding accountability, providing housing and shelter, treating mental health and substance abuse, and prevention for people at-risk.

“Despite record spending by Democrats in recent years, the homelessness problem has only gotten worse said Senator Grove. “Tackling this moral and humanitarian crisis is a top priority for my Republican colleagues and I.”

Every year, California youth make up a significant portion of the State’s total homeless population. They are severely impacted by the increasing costs for basic housing and food.

Obtaining a stable job is one way to help end the terrible cycle of homelessness. Employment leads to greater self-sufficiency and discipline, reduces the time spent on the streets, teaches key job and social skills, and provides the income stability necessary to find and maintain housing. Together, these factors reduce the likelihood that a youth will become stuck in a cycle of homelessness, poverty and dependency on public benefits and services.

About SB 1484: SB 1484 would allow private sector employers to obtain a tax credit, modeled after the federal Work Opportunity Tax Credit (WOTC), for hiring an individual who is a homeless youth, foster youth or former foster youth.

Specifically, Senate Bill 1484 will:

●      Take a preventative approach that invests in youth before they become chronically homeless, giving them a better chance at a solid start to life.

●      Provide job opportunities for homeless youth, in addition to providing a tax credit for employers.

●      The credit would be applied against a business’s taxable liability in the amount of 40% of a qualified worker’s wages for the first year of employment up to $2,400.

Capitol Office

1021 O Street, Room 7150 Sacramento, CA 95814 Phone: (916) 651-4012 Fax: (916) 651-4916

Bakersfield Office

5701 Truxtun Ave., Suite 150 Bakersfield, CA 93309 Phone: (661) 323-0443 Fax: (661) 323-0446

Fresno Office

567 W. Shaw Ave., Suite A-3 Fresno, CA 93704 Phone:  559-243-8580

facebook Facebook

twitter Twitter

instagram Instagram

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

Home

About Shannon Biography Committees 12th Senate District Map

Biography

Committees

12th Senate District Map

Legislation My Legislation Bill Search Submit a Legislative Proposal

My Legislation

Bill Search

Submit a Legislative Proposal

Newsroom Releases / Editorials Photos

Releases / Editorials

Photos

Resources California Senate Fellows Program Coronavirus Information Education Register to Vote Unclaimed Property Veteran Resources

California Senate Fellows Program

Coronavirus Information

Education

Register to Vote

Unclaimed Property

Veteran Resources

Contact me My Offices E-mail the Senator Subscribe

My Offices

E-mail the Senator

Subscribe

Senator Grove Introduces Bill to Support the Hiring of Homeless and Foster Youth

More News

View All

Breadcrumb

Aug 29
Senator Shannon Grove Celebrates Advancement of Key Bills for Special Education and Rural Healthcare, Expresses Disappointment Over Scrapping of Leno’s Law
Aug 27
VIDEO: Celebrity advocate Paris Hilton calls for passage of child protection measure ahead of key vote
Aug 25
Senator Shannon Grove and Assemblyman David Tangipa  Honor Retired NFL Quarterback, Derek Carr
Aug 21
Senator Shannon Grove opposes Democrats' attempt to override the will of California voters