Have you heard the good news? The Department of Managed Health Care has agreed with Senator Suzette Martinez Valladares and Senator Shannon Grove that a Hearing Exam and Hearing Aids benefit is a priority for adding to the state’s essential health benefits benchmark plan.

In February, Valladares sent a letter to the DMHC urging the inclusion of hearing aid coverage for middle-class children and adults as a top priority in the updated benchmark plan. Low-income children already receive coverage through Medi-Cal or the California Children’s Services programs. In a heart-warming video, advocates of the effort applauding Senate Republicans for the effort. Click here to view the video.

“Hearing aids are not just tools, they are bridges to a world of communication, unlocking opportunities for children to connect, learn, and grow while experiencing the world around them,” said Sen. Suzette Valladares, vice chair of the Health Committee and a co-signer of the letter to the DMHC. “For many children, hearing aids are a significant quality of life issue, allowing them to better function at home and in school. I’m grateful that this benefit will be included in the benchmark plan.”

The federal Affordable Care Act requires individual and small group plans to cover ten broad categories of “essential health benefits,” including primary care, hospital services, prescription drugs, and emergency and urgent care service. Within those categories, states have discretion in selecting which specific services will be “benchmarks” its plans must cover. California adopted its current benchmark plan in 2015 and is now working on updating it.

The state’s updated plan, which along with the hearing aids benefit includes two other proposed benefits, will be submitted by early May to the federal government for final approval.

Read the earlier letter Valladares sent to Mary Watanabe, director of the California Department of Managed Health Care, here .

Capitol

Valencia Office

25060 West Ave Stanford, Suite 130 Valencia, CA 91355 Phone: (661) 257-1204

Lancaster Office

42505 10th St West Suite 109 Lancaster, CA 93534 Phone: (661) 729-6232

Adelanto Office

11600 Air Expressway Adelanto, CA 92301 Phone: (760) 246-2911

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

<d

Home

About Suzette Biography Committees District Map

Biography

Committees

District Map

Legislation My Legislation Bill Search

My Legislation

Bill Search

Newsroom Releases / Opinions Media Kit

Releases / Opinions

Media Kit

Contact Me Email the Senator My Offices

Email the Senator

My Offices

Senator Valladares helps secure addition of kids’ hearing aids to state plan

Breadcrumb