SACRAMENTO - Senator Shannon Grove ( R-Bakersfield) announced her bill Senate Bill 14 , cleared the full Senate on concurrence with a unanimous vote. SB 14 would include sex trafficking of minors in the lists of crimes that are defined as serious under California law, making the crime a strike under the Three Strikes law. Click here to view and download Senator Grove's remarks following the passage of SB 14 on concurrence today.

Human trafficking is a heinous crime that violates basic human rights and destroys countless lives. In California, human trafficking is rampant, and the state must take bold action to hold traffickers accountable for their crimes.

California has the unfortunate distinction of being one of the top states for human trafficking in the United States. Thousands of people, many of them minors, are forced into sexual exploitation each year.

“Today is a huge victory for every survivor who has shared their story in hopes of making a change with Senate Bill 14,” said Senate Shannon Grove . “With the passage of this bill, we are sending a clear message to repeat child traffickers— we intend to put you out of business and into prison.”

This bipartisan measure is coauthored by 64 members of the Legislature. SB 14 is supported by over a hundred local, national and international organizations, including a coalition of human trafficking survivors and advocates. 3Strands Global Foundation, whose mission is to mobilize communities in order to combat human trafficking through prevention, education and reintegration programs, sponsored the measure.

"Over the past 13 years, 3Strands Global Foundation has worked alongside survivors in our prevention and reintegration work. The final passage of SB 14 through the California State Legislature is a win for every Californian and especially our survivors who have advocated for this legislation for the last several years. Thank you Senator Grove for your leadership with this bi-partisan bill," said Ashlie Bryant, CEO and co-founder of 3Strands Global Foundation.

An estimated 40 million people globally in the last decade have been forced into this form of modern slavery called human trafficking, a number that continues to grow. This horrendous practice could very easily be defined as, The Crime of our Time. It is one of the world’s fastest growing and most lucrative crimes, generating around $150 billion around the world each year.

SB 14 passed through the legislature and is headed to the Governor’s desk for his signature by October 14.

Capitol Office

1021 O Street, Room 7150 Sacramento, CA 95814 Phone: (916) 651-4012 Fax: (916) 651-4916

Bakersfield Office

5701 Truxtun Ave., Suite 150 Bakersfield, CA 93309 Phone: (661) 323-0443 Fax: (661) 323-0446

Fresno Office

567 W. Shaw Ave., Suite A-3 Fresno, CA 93704 Phone:  559-243-8580

facebook Facebook

twitter Twitter

instagram Instagram

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

Home

About Shannon Biography Committees 12th Senate District Map

Biography

Committees

12th Senate District Map

Legislation My Legislation Bill Search Submit a Legislative Proposal

My Legislation

Bill Search

Submit a Legislative Proposal

Newsroom Releases / Editorials Photos

Releases / Editorials

Photos

Resources California Senate Fellows Program Coronavirus Information Education Register to Vote Unclaimed Property Veteran Resources

California Senate Fellows Program

Coronavirus Information

Education

Register to Vote

Unclaimed Property

Veteran Resources

Contact me My Offices E-mail the Senator Subscribe

My Offices

E-mail the Senator

Subscribe

Senator Grove’s Human Trafficking Bill Clears Last Legislative Hurdle, Headed to Governor for Signature

More News

View All

Breadcrumb

Aug 29
Senator Shannon Grove Celebrates Advancement of Key Bills for Special Education and Rural Healthcare, Expresses Disappointment Over Scrapping of Leno’s Law
Aug 27
VIDEO: Celebrity advocate Paris Hilton calls for passage of child protection measure ahead of key vote
Aug 25
Senator Shannon Grove and Assemblyman David Tangipa  Honor Retired NFL Quarterback, Derek Carr
Aug 21
Senator Shannon Grove opposes Democrats' attempt to override the will of California voters