Senator Brian W. Jones (R-Santee), San Diego County District Attorney Summer Stephan and Chula Vista Police Chief Roxana Kennedy held a press conference this morning in which they viewed a demonstration of how quickly and easily catalytic converters can be stolen and pending legislation to help prevent those thefts.

The press conference was held at Barrio Auto Service , located at 2490 Commercial Street, in San Diego, and employees of the repair shop showed the assembled community leaders and members of the media just how quickly the theft of a catalytic converter can occur.

“Two, three, maybe four minutes, and there goes your vehicle’s catalytic converter off with the thief to be fenced for a quick few hundred bucks,” stated Senator Brian W. Jones.  “The cost to the vehicle owner however can be thousands of dollars in parts and repair costs, not to mention other expenses such as missed time from work or arranging for alternate transportation.  Our legislation will go a long way to help prevent these thefts from occurring by increasing the risk of getting caught and narrowing the options for illegal sales.”

Specifically, Jones’s Senate Bill 919 will combat the theft of catalytic converters in three ways:

Identification – the dealers of all new and used cars in California will be required to permanently mark a vehicle’s catalytic converter with the Vehicle Identification Number (VIN) already assigned to the car or truck.  This will make tracking and identifying stolen catalytic converters easier;

Recycling – metal recyclers would only be allowed to buy catalytic converters that have a clear and untampered VIN on it, and keep detailed records of who sold them the converter.  These records would be accessible to law enforcement which will help cut of the current loose practice of selling and buying catalytic stolen converters; and

Punishment – while some potential jail time and fines are already in current law, those fines would be raised further increasing the risk of buying, selling or possessing a stolen catalytic converter, thus discouraging many of those thefts in the first place.

The theft of catalytic converters is drastically increasing throughout the country as a result of the rising cost of precious metals and the effect of supply chain problems on the availability of replacement catalytic converters.  More catalytic converters were stolen in California last year (18,000) than in any other state, and thefts in California account for 30% of the related insurance claims in the nation.

SB 919 is set to be heard on April 4th by the Senate Business, Professions and Economic Development Committee.  SB 919 is sponsored by the Chula Vista Police Department and is supported by the San Diego County District Attorney.

Capitol Office

1021 O Street, Room 7640 Sacramento, CA 95814 Phone: (916) 651-4040 Fax: (916) 651-4940

Scripps Ranch Office

10650 Treena Street #110 San Diego, CA 92131 Phone: (858) 547-3818

Escondido Office

720 N. Broadway, Suite 110 Escondido, CA 92025 Phone: (760) 796-4655

facebook Facebook

twitter Twitter

instagram Instagram

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

Home

About Brian Biography

Biography

Legislation My Legislation Committees Bill Search

My Legislation

Committees

Bill Search

Newsroom Releases/Editorials In The News Audio/Video Are You Kidding Me? Photos Media Kit

Releases/Editorials

In The News

Audio/Video

Are You Kidding Me?

Photos

Media Kit

Contact Me Certificate Request District Internship Program District Map E-mail the Senator Legislative Proposal My Offices Subscribe to the Mailing List

Certificate Request

District Internship Program

District Map

E-mail the Senator

Legislative Proposal

My Offices

Subscribe to the Mailing List

Senator Jones, District Attorney Stephan and Police Chief Kennedy view catalytic converter theft demonstration and discuss prevention legislation

More News

ICYMI

View All

Breadcrumb

Aug 6
California Republicans’ Growing Impact on Social Media
Jul 16
Leader Jones Stands on Steps of the Capitol Opposing the Anti-Charter School Bill
Jul 16
AB 84 Charter Schools Press Conference
Jul 15
Leader Jones Demands Accountability on Dangerous Sexually Violent Predator Program

Jun 17
2025
$8-a-gallon gas? Senate Minority Leader Brian W. Jones requests audit of gas price hikes
Jun 9
2025
Nixed bill could have prevented LA unrest, California minority leader says
Jun 8
2025
California lawmaker warns Menendez brothers' case is driving return of bill to release thousands of killers
Jun 3
2025
Ramona nonprofit, resident recognized with Senate District 40 awards