Senator Ochoa Bogh with members of the Senate and Assembly Republican Caucuses, law enforcement, and surrogates held a press conference to discuss the importance of SB 664, which would improve safety for individuals with disabilities. Click HERE for remarks from Senator Ochoa Bogh in English and Spanish. Photo courtesy: Alex Bello, Senate Republican Caucus

Senator Rosilicie Ochoa Bogh (R-Yucaipa) has introduced Senate Bill 664 , an important initiative to expand California’s Blue Envelope Program statewide. This voluntary program will provide individuals with autism, intellectual disabilities, or other communication barriers with a specially designed blue envelope to hold essential documents and communication guidance for law enforcement.

“A routine traffic stop can be stressful for anyone, but for individuals with autism or other disabilities, it can be terrifying—sometimes leading to unnecessary escalation,” said Senator Ochoa Bogh . “SB 664 is a simple yet powerful solution that fosters understanding, reduces fear, and ultimately keeps everyone safer—both individuals with disabilities and the officers who serve our communities.”

The bill has gained strong support from law enforcement agencies and disability advocacy groups.

“As the first agency in California to implement a Blue Envelope Program, we are proud that this has caught on. This bill sets to standardize the program statewide to ensure consistency in its application,” said Riverside County Sheriff Chad Bianco . “SB 664 helps bridge the communication gap between our disabled community and law enforcement to ensure a safer and more understanding experience. The Riverside County Sheriff's Office could not be prouder of Senator Ochoa Bogh's leadership on this issue and we are honored to sponsor this meaningful, non-partisan measure.”

Currently implemented in several California counties, the Blue Envelope Program has helped de-escalate traffic stops and routine interactions between law enforcement and individuals with disabilities. The envelope, available upon request through the Department of Motor Vehicles (DMV), will contain a driver’s license, registration, insurance card, and written instructions for both the driver and officer to ensure a safer and more understanding exchange.

“Program participants often express the Blue Envelope Program gives them confidence to communicate with law enforcement,” said San Diego County Sheriff Kelly Martinez. “With Senate Bill 664, let us uplift our commitment to the communities by aiming to make California a model for compassion and understanding in law enforcement.”

If passed, SB 664 will make California the largest state in the nation to implement a Blue Envelope Program, following the success of the program in Connecticut, Massachusetts, and Rhode Island.

“The Association of Regional Center Agencies (ARCA) is grateful to Senator Ochoa Bogh for her leadership and commitment to improve outcomes between law enforcement and the disability community,” said Amy Westling, Executive Director of ARCA . “We cannot stop working on this problem until all people with developmental disabilities and their families can safely navigate their communities and law enforcement is fully informed and confident in their approach to meeting the unique needs of our community.”

SB 664 is part of a broader effort to improve interactions with individuals requiring additional accommodations.

Capitol Office

1021 O Street, Room 7220 Sacramento, CA 95814 Phone: (916) 651-4019 Fax: (916) 651-4919

Redlands Office

1758 Orange Tree Lane, Suite B Redlands, CA 92374 Phone: (909) 335-0271 Fax: (909) 335-0282

facebook Facebook

twitter Twitter

instagram Instagram

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

Home

About Rosilicie My Legislation Current Legislation Legislative Accomplishments 2024 Legislative Accomplishments 2023 Legislative Accomplishments 2022-21 Bill Search Committees Biography

My Legislation Current Legislation Legislative Accomplishments 2024 Legislative Accomplishments 2023 Legislative Accomplishments 2022-21 Bill Search

Current Legislation

Legislative Accomplishments 2024

Legislative Accomplishments 2023

Legislative Accomplishments 2022-21

Bill Search

Committees

Biography

District District Map Virtual Insurance Town Hall Virtual PSPS Town Hall Wildfire Resources

District Map

Virtual Insurance Town Hall

Virtual PSPS Town Hall

Wildfire Resources

Newsroom Releases/Editorials

Releases/Editorials

Contact Me Constituent Services E-mail the Senator Look Ahead Mobile Office Hours My Offices State Agencies Subscribe

Constituent Services

E-mail the Senator

Look Ahead

Mobile Office Hours

My Offices

State Agencies

Subscribe

Senator Ochoa Bogh Introduces Statewide Blue Envelope Program to Improve Safety for Individuals with Disabilities

Breadcrumb