Today, Senator Steven Choi (R- Irvine) proudly recognized Lonnie Lee, Director of the Moon International Center at Concordia University Irvine, as part of the Senate’s celebration of outstanding Asian American and Pacific Islander (AAPI) leaders across California.

“Lonnie Lee conceptualizes the true spirit of global leadership and compassion that is needed to strengthen our communities,” said Senator Choi. “Her dedication to helping international students navigate the complex admissions process and settle into life in the United States is deeply inspiring.”

Senator Choi shared her accomplishments with colleagues, highlighting her impactful work with students from around the globe. Although Ms. Lee was unable to attend the ceremony on the Senate Floor, a district event is planned later this spring to celebrate her achievements in person.

“It is a tremendous honor to be recognized by Senator Choi during AAPI Heritage Month,” said Lonnie Lee. “As someone who once navigated the challenges of coming to a new country, I am deeply committed to helping international students feel seen, supported, and empowered as they pursue their educational goals here in California.”

Born in South Korea, Lonnie Lee brings a unique international perspective to her role at Concordia University Irvine, where she supports both freshman and transfer students through personalized guidance and support. With a degree in Business Administration and a focus in Marketing, she is known for her approachable communication style and emphasis on clarity, helping students successfully complete the admissions process.

Senator Choi’s floor recognition is a part of an annual tradition honoring influential AAPI Californian’s during AAPI Heritage Month. Details about the upcoming district recognition event for Ms. Lee will be announced in the coming weeks.

Click here to subscribe for district updates and for more info of upcoming events.

Capitol

District

3200 El Camino Real, Suite 230 Irvine, CA 92602 Phone: (714) 544-1035

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

<d

Home

About Dr. Choi Biography Committees

Biography

Committees

Legislation

Newsroom Releases / Opinions Important Updates Audio / Video Photo Gallery

Releases / Opinions

Important Updates

Audio / Video

Photo Gallery

Contact Me District Internship Program District Map Email the Senator My Offices

District Internship Program

District Map

Email the Senator

My Offices

Senator Choi’s Recognizes AAPI Nominee Lonnie Lee on Senate Floor

Breadcrumb