SACRAMENTO – Today, Senate Bill 224 introduced by Senate Republican Leader Shannon Grove (R-Bakersfield) passed out of the Assembly Public Safety Committee on a bipartisan vote. SB 224 would create a new category for grand theft of agricultural property and would require that the fines collected be repurposed to current agriculture and rural-based crime prevention programs. SB 224 will now head to the Assembly Appropriations Committee for consideration.

“I want to thank the Assembly Public Safety Committee for understanding the need of this legislation. Agricultural theft is a big deal in California and it hurts our farmers and ranchers when expensive equipment is stolen.  We need to help our farmers and this bill is a great start. SB 224 would also help our law enforcement and farmers because the fines collected would go back to support crime prevention programs,” said Senate Republican Leader Shannon Grove.

Ann Vassar, a Northern California cattle rancher and retired agricultural teacher testified during the committee hearing about her experience as a victim of agricultural theft.

“As a rancher, this legislation will be helpful and necessary. I’ve been a victim of agricultural theft and the feeling of having equipment stolen is intrusive. I am glad that Senator Grove is taking action to help law enforcement, farmers, and ranchers deal with the growing problem in rural areas. I am happy to support her legislation,” said Ann Vassar.

“Agriculture is the backbone of Tulare County. Our identity is wrapped up in the success of our farmers, ranchers, laborers and everyone else who is involved and impacted by Ag. When our partners in Agriculture are victimized, we are all victimized. People lose jobs. Prices go up. Livelihoods are lost. I, personally, cannot stand back and watch that happen. Senate Bill 224 is a necessary step forward in much-needed legislation to protect our growers. And I hope our legislators can recognize its importance. It is long overdue,” said Tulare County Sheriff Mike Boudreaux.

Capitol Office

1021 O Street, Room 7150 Sacramento, CA 95814 Phone: (916) 651-4012 Fax: (916) 651-4916

Bakersfield Office

5701 Truxtun Ave., Suite 150 Bakersfield, CA 93309 Phone: (661) 323-0443 Fax: (661) 323-0446

Fresno Office

567 W. Shaw Ave., Suite A-3 Fresno, CA 93704 Phone:  559-243-8580

facebook Facebook

twitter Twitter

instagram Instagram

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

Home

About Shannon Biography Committees 12th Senate District Map

Biography

Committees

12th Senate District Map

Legislation My Legislation Bill Search Submit a Legislative Proposal

My Legislation

Bill Search

Submit a Legislative Proposal

Newsroom Releases / Editorials Photos

Releases / Editorials

Photos

Resources California Senate Fellows Program Coronavirus Information Education Register to Vote Unclaimed Property Veteran Resources

California Senate Fellows Program

Coronavirus Information

Education

Register to Vote

Unclaimed Property

Veteran Resources

Contact me My Offices E-mail the Senator Subscribe

My Offices

E-mail the Senator

Subscribe

Senator Grove's Agriculture Theft Legislation Clears First Assembly Hurdle

More News

View All

Breadcrumb

Aug 29
Senator Shannon Grove Celebrates Advancement of Key Bills for Special Education and Rural Healthcare, Expresses Disappointment Over Scrapping of Leno’s Law
Aug 27
VIDEO: Celebrity advocate Paris Hilton calls for passage of child protection measure ahead of key vote
Aug 25
Senator Shannon Grove and Assemblyman David Tangipa  Honor Retired NFL Quarterback, Derek Carr
Aug 21
Senator Shannon Grove opposes Democrats' attempt to override the will of California voters