Over the weekend, Senate Minority Leader Brian W. Jones (R-San Diego) hosted a successful legislative open house at his Scripps Ranch office. The event on December 14, 2024 drew hundreds of attendees, including several elected officials and 51 exhibits from community groups and non-profits throughout the district. Click here for photos from the event and here to watch Leader Jones’s remarks at the event with updates about the district and Capitol.

"Our annual open house at my Scripps Ranch office was a tremendous success, with hundreds of attendees coming together to learn about the work my office is doing and the contributions of community groups across the district," said Leader Jones. "The incredible turnout highlights the strong sense of community and shared purpose that make our district so special. I am truly grateful for the support of our constituents and remain committed to uplifting our community, helping residents thrive, and ensuring government works for the people we serve."

The event featured exhibits from several district and regional non-profits and community groups. Click here for a video walkthrough of all the exhibits.

The following 37 community groups had booth exhibits at the event: Alliant International University, Barona Cultural Center & Museum, CalFire, California Senior Legislature, California State University San Marcos, CALTRANS District 11, Deeper Still Fallbrook, D'Vine Path, East County Transitional Living Center, Fallbrook Rotary, Feeding San Diego, Grand Canyon University, Home of Guiding Hands, Lakeside Fire, Mira Mesa High School Students Programs, Mira Mesa Town Council, National University, Neighborhood Healthcare, Pacific Southwest Association of Realtors, Palomar College, Palomar College TRiO Programs, Partnership With Industry: East County Office, Poway Chamber of Commerce, Poway High School Robotics Team Spyder, Red White and Bad Ass Coffee, Ronald McDonald House, San Dieguito River Park JPA, Santee Kiwanis, Shen Yun & Falun Gong, Sikes Adobe Historic Farmstead, Sikh Foundation San Diego, StretchLab Scripps Ranch, Taiwanese Chamber of Commerce of San Diego, The Coca-Cola Company, University City Community Association, University of California San Diego, Urban Corps San Diego, and Wounded Warrior Homes.

The following 14 local restaurants, businesses, and individuals had booths with donated food for the event: Board and Brew, Café Coyote, Corner Bakery, Crumble of Poway, East Bound Bar and Grill, El Sueño, Jackie’s Jams, Jack-in-the-Box, Junction Bar & Grill, McDonald's, Nutmeg Bakery & Café, Popeyes, Raising Cane's, and Takhrai Thai.

Capitol Office

1021 O Street, Room 7640 Sacramento, CA 95814 Phone: (916) 651-4040 Fax: (916) 651-4940

Scripps Ranch Office

10650 Treena Street #110 San Diego, CA 92131 Phone: (858) 547-3818

Escondido Office

720 N. Broadway, Suite 110 Escondido, CA 92025 Phone: (760) 796-4655

facebook Facebook

twitter Twitter

instagram Instagram

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

Home

About Brian Biography

Biography

Legislation My Legislation Committees Bill Search

My Legislation

Committees

Bill Search

Newsroom Releases/Editorials In The News Audio/Video Are You Kidding Me? Photos Media Kit

Releases/Editorials

In The News

Audio/Video

Are You Kidding Me?

Photos

Media Kit

Contact Me Certificate Request District Internship Program District Map E-mail the Senator Legislative Proposal My Offices Subscribe to the Mailing List

Certificate Request

District Internship Program

District Map

E-mail the Senator

Legislative Proposal

My Offices

Subscribe to the Mailing List

Senator Brian Jones Hosts Annual Holiday Open House

More News

ICYMI

View All

Breadcrumb

Aug 6
California Republicans’ Growing Impact on Social Media
Jul 16
Leader Jones Stands on Steps of the Capitol Opposing the Anti-Charter School Bill
Jul 16
AB 84 Charter Schools Press Conference
Jul 15
Leader Jones Demands Accountability on Dangerous Sexually Violent Predator Program

Jun 17
2025
$8-a-gallon gas? Senate Minority Leader Brian W. Jones requests audit of gas price hikes
Jun 9
2025
Nixed bill could have prevented LA unrest, California minority leader says
Jun 8
2025
California lawmaker warns Menendez brothers' case is driving return of bill to release thousands of killers
Jun 3
2025
Ramona nonprofit, resident recognized with Senate District 40 awards