In a stunning display of political retribution, Democrats in the California State Senate have responded to Senator Alvarado-Gil’s (R-Jackson) decision to leave the Democratic Party by stripping her of all her committee assignments and removing her from the Latino Caucus. Despite these punitive actions, Senator Alvarado-Gil remains committed to representing the people of California, and her Senate District 4.

“How far will the Democrats go because they’re angry?” Senator Alvarado-Gil asked . “I can take whatever heat is coming my way and fully recognize it comes with the territory of leaving a supermajority that operates like a mob. They can attack me all they want, but the people of California do not deserve to suffer because of political vendettas.”

This week, the Democrats' retaliation against Senator Alvarado-Gil raises serious concerns about the future of several key bills she is authoring to protect Californians:

SB 268: Making Rape of an Intentionally Intoxicated Person a Violent Felony

SB 796: Making General Threats against a School or Place of Worship a Felony

SB 1088: Improving Water Infrastructure for Rural Communities Facing Imminent Wildfire Threats

By killing SB 268, Democrats won’t care about protecting victims of sexual violence – rather, they would prefer to protect rapists who take advantage of vulnerable people.

If the Democrats axe SB 796, they would be turning a blind eye to the safety of our children and communities, allowing mass shooters to go unpunished.

Finally, Democrats will abandon rural Californians in their time of need, refusing to safeguard our water systems and prevent devastating wildfires if they don’t push SB 1088 forward. This particular move will speak volumes amid their significant backing of Proposition 4 (water bonds) on this year’s November ballot.

Senator Alvarado-Gil is calling on all Californians to make their voices heard. “This is not just about one senator; this is about ensuring critical legislation is not sacrificed on the altar of political retribution. I urge you to call or email Pro-Tem McGuire’s office or your local senator. Let them know that you won’t stand for this. We must put the people of California first. ”

Capitol

Modesto

1020 15th Street, Ste 21 Modesto, CA 95354 Phone: (209) 576-6001

El Dorado Hills

4364 Town Center Blvd, Suite 313 El Dorado Hills, CA 95762 Phone: (916) 933-8680

Privacy Policy

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

<d

Home

About Marie Biography District Map

Biography

District Map

Legislation Bill Search

Bill Search

Newsroom Press Releases Op-Eds

Press Releases

Op-Eds

Contact Me District Offices Email the Senator Scheduling Requests State Resources Subscribe

District Offices

Email the Senator

Scheduling Requests

State Resources

Subscribe

Senator Marie Alvarado-Gil Responds to Retribution from California Senate Democratic Party Following Party Switch

Breadcrumb