SACRAMENTO – Today, Senate Republican Leader Shannon Grove ( R-Bakersfield ) released the following statement calling on Congressional Democrats to act quickly to protect millions of jobs, stop playing partisan politics, and stop adding layers of unnecessary bureaucratic hurdles.

Due to a lack of resources provided by Congress, the Small Business Administration (SBA) has run out of funds to assist small business owners. In March, President Trump signed the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security Act (CARES) Act, a $2.2 trillion federal stimulus package. Out of those funds, Congress allocated $350 billion to provide relief loans for small businesses. As of April 16, the SBA has already approved more than 100 million loans with more than $247 billion processed. President Trump has called for additional funds, yet Democrats have stalled efforts and instead want to include funding for their pet projects.

“The stakes are high right now and Democratic Congressmember Nancy Pelosi needs to stop playing partisan politics with the livelihood of millions of families and job creators who have been financially impacted by this crisis.

“Job creators are depending on economic relief loans such as the Payroll Protection Program to help them stay afloat while we ride out this crisis. Now is not the time to play political games. It is time for them to collaborate with Congressional Republican leaders to approve additional funds that will offer economic relief to millions of Americans so they can pay their employees and keep their business doors open,” said Senate Republican Leader Shannon Grove.

Capitol Office

1021 O Street, Room 7150 Sacramento, CA 95814 Phone: (916) 651-4012 Fax: (916) 651-4916

Bakersfield Office

5701 Truxtun Ave., Suite 150 Bakersfield, CA 93309 Phone: (661) 323-0443 Fax: (661) 323-0446

Fresno Office

567 W. Shaw Ave., Suite A-3 Fresno, CA 93704 Phone:  559-243-8580

facebook Facebook

twitter Twitter

instagram Instagram

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

Home

About Shannon Biography Committees 12th Senate District Map

Biography

Committees

12th Senate District Map

Legislation My Legislation Bill Search Submit a Legislative Proposal

My Legislation

Bill Search

Submit a Legislative Proposal

Newsroom Releases / Editorials Photos

Releases / Editorials

Photos

Resources California Senate Fellows Program Coronavirus Information Education Register to Vote Unclaimed Property Veteran Resources

California Senate Fellows Program

Coronavirus Information

Education

Register to Vote

Unclaimed Property

Veteran Resources

Contact me My Offices E-mail the Senator Subscribe

My Offices

E-mail the Senator

Subscribe

Senate Republican Leader Grove Urges Congressional Democrats to Stop Playing Political Games and Support Economic Relief to American Small Business Owners

More News

View All

Breadcrumb

Aug 29
Senator Shannon Grove Celebrates Advancement of Key Bills for Special Education and Rural Healthcare, Expresses Disappointment Over Scrapping of Leno’s Law
Aug 27
VIDEO: Celebrity advocate Paris Hilton calls for passage of child protection measure ahead of key vote
Aug 25
Senator Shannon Grove and Assemblyman David Tangipa  Honor Retired NFL Quarterback, Derek Carr
Aug 21
Senator Shannon Grove opposes Democrats' attempt to override the will of California voters