Sacramento – Two measures authored by Senator Brian W. Jones (R-Santee) and coauthored by Senator Dave Min (D-Irvine), aimed at assisting small businesses, were approved unanimously by the Senate Banking and Financial Institutions Committee.

“We want California small businesses to not just survive but to thrive, for their owners, employees and the community,” stated Senator Brian W. Jones.  “These measures make it as straightforward as possible for business owners to correct technical, non-compliant paperwork issues as well as helping new businesses make California their headquarters.”

Specifically, Senate Bill 218 amends the California Corporations Code so businesses can directly ratify (or petition the superior court to ratify) noncompliant, but otherwise lawful, corporate actions.

Unlike large corporations, which often have in-house counsel, small businesses usually handle most of their own regulatory paperwork.  As these small businesses grow, the owner’s role may expand into new activities, such as seeking outside funding, acquiring other businesses, selling a line of the business (or the entire corporation), or undertaking an initial public offering.  In these activities, minor, unintentional, and technically “non-compliant” issues may occur.  SB 218 would provide an easy pathway for the business to correct the issue, return to compliance, and get back to running their business.

SB 288 encourages new businesses to incorporate in California, rather than another state, by streamlining the corporate conversion process so California is competitive with other states.

The California Corporations Code currently provides partnerships and limited liability companies (LLCs) with a simple process to convert their form of organization, but does not provide that same flexibility to corporations.  As a result, many new California-based corporations will initially choose to incorporate out of California in states that have a more flexible corporate conversion process.  SB 288 remedies this by simply streamlining the corporate conversion process.

Both SB 218 and SB 288 are sponsored by the California Lawyers Association and are now awaiting hearing in the Senate Judiciary Committee.

Capitol Office

1021 O Street, Room 7640 Sacramento, CA 95814 Phone: (916) 651-4040 Fax: (916) 651-4940

Scripps Ranch Office

10650 Treena Street #110 San Diego, CA 92131 Phone: (858) 547-3818

Escondido Office

720 N. Broadway, Suite 110 Escondido, CA 92025 Phone: (760) 796-4655

facebook Facebook

twitter Twitter

instagram Instagram

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

Home

About Brian Biography

Biography

Legislation My Legislation Committees Bill Search

My Legislation

Committees

Bill Search

Newsroom Releases/Editorials In The News Audio/Video Are You Kidding Me? Photos Media Kit

Releases/Editorials

In The News

Audio/Video

Are You Kidding Me?

Photos

Media Kit

Contact Me Certificate Request District Internship Program District Map E-mail the Senator Legislative Proposal My Offices Subscribe to the Mailing List

Certificate Request

District Internship Program

District Map

E-mail the Senator

Legislative Proposal

My Offices

Subscribe to the Mailing List

Small business measures by Jones & Min approved on bi-partisan votes in key Senate committee

More News

ICYMI

View All

Breadcrumb

Aug 6
California Republicans’ Growing Impact on Social Media
Jul 16
Leader Jones Stands on Steps of the Capitol Opposing the Anti-Charter School Bill
Jul 16
AB 84 Charter Schools Press Conference
Jul 15
Leader Jones Demands Accountability on Dangerous Sexually Violent Predator Program

Jun 17
2025
$8-a-gallon gas? Senate Minority Leader Brian W. Jones requests audit of gas price hikes
Jun 9
2025
Nixed bill could have prevented LA unrest, California minority leader says
Jun 8
2025
California lawmaker warns Menendez brothers' case is driving return of bill to release thousands of killers
Jun 3
2025
Ramona nonprofit, resident recognized with Senate District 40 awards