Speaker of the House Kevin McCarthy, Representative of California’s 20th Congressional District, appointed California State Assemblyman Vince Fong (R-Central Valley) to the Commission to Study the Potential Creation of a National Museum of Asian Pacific History and Culture. “I have known and worked with Vince Fong for over 15 years and have always been impressed by his leadership skills, affability, and work ethic. After being elected to Congress, I hired Vince, who worked his way up to becoming my first district director, and it has been a privilege to watch him serve our community now as a member of the California State Assembly,” Speaker McCarthy said. “Being the first Asian American to represent our region in the State Legislature, he has been an effective leader for the Central Valley.”

Speaker McCarthy added, “As he takes on this additional role, I know Vince will bring our Central Valley values of hard work and determination to help this commission succeed.”

“As a son of Asian immigrants who came to the United States to pursue the American Dream, I am humbled by this appointment and excited about the opportunity to tell the stories of Asian and Pacific Islander Americans who have given so much to our great nation,” Assemblyman Fong said. “It is an honor to be asked by Speaker McCarthy to serve on this important commission as we look to recognize the many accomplishments and significant contributions of Americans of Asian and Pacific Island descent in the Central Valley and across the state and nation.”

Established by Congress and signed into law by the President on June 16, 2022, the Commission to Study the Potential Creation of a National Museum of Asian Pacific American History and Culture Act will study the potential creation of the first national museum to preserve the history and culture of Asian and Pacific Islanders Americans.

With its eight members, the Commission is tasked with exploring the feasibility of establishing, maintaining, funding and operating such a facility in the nation’s capital, possibly as part of the Smithsonian Institution in Washington, D.C.

The Commission is required to:

Report recommendations for a plan of action on the establishment and maintenance of a National Museum of Asian Pacific American History and Culture;

Develop a plan to support the establishment, operation, and maintenance of the museum;

Perform an independent review of this plan, including an analysis of the resources necessary to fund the construction of the museum and its operations and maintenance without reliance on federal funds;

Report on the availability and cost of acquiring collections for the museum, identify potential locations for the facility in Washington, D.C., and determine its regional impact on other related museums; and

Submit to Congress a legislative plan of action on whether to and how to establish and construct the museum.

The commission will have 18 months to complete its work.

# # #

Contact Nghia.Nguyen@asm.ca.gov 916.813.8367

Assemblyman Vince Fong represents the 32 nd Assembly District, which encompasses Kern and Tulare Counties.