Today, the Governor unveiled his $297 billion budget proposal. Vice Chair of the Assembly Budget Committee Vince Fong (R-Central Valley) issued the following statement: “Californians are demanding real results, not more political headlines. “Californians continue to persevere as they face a weakening economy, inflation and an affordability crisis, rising costs of energy, and now the consequences of a lack of needed water infrastructure investments. When Mother Nature blesses us with rain, we need to save the water, instead of dumping it out to the ocean. “Families are rightfully frustrated as they are tired of paying more and getting less. “The Governor’s rhetoric does not match reality. Facing a $22 billion deficit, Governor Newsom’s budget continues his misguided habit to overspend with little accountability. Newsom’s budget again fails to adequately build water storage and conveyance infrastructure to store water and move it across the state. And this budget framework perpetuates ill-conceived energy policies that will stifle needed affordable and reliable energy supplies when Californians are demanding relief.” # # # Nghia.Nguyen@asm.ca.gov 916.813.8367 cell Assemblyman Vince Fong represents the 32 nd Assembly District, which encompasses Kern and Tulare Counties.

Today, the Governor unveiled his $297 billion budget proposal. Vice Chair of the Assembly Budget Committee Vince Fong (R-Central Valley) issued the following statement:

“Californians are demanding real results, not more political headlines.

“Californians continue to persevere as they face a weakening economy, inflation and an affordability crisis, rising costs of energy, and now the consequences of a lack of needed water infrastructure investments. When Mother Nature blesses us with rain, we need to save the water, instead of dumping it out to the ocean.

“Families are rightfully frustrated as they are tired of paying more and getting less.

“The Governor’s rhetoric does not match reality. Facing a $22 billion deficit, Governor Newsom’s budget continues his misguided habit to overspend with little accountability. Newsom’s budget again fails to adequately build water storage and conveyance infrastructure to store water and move it across the state. And this budget framework perpetuates ill-conceived energy policies that will stifle needed affordable and reliable energy supplies when Californians are demanding relief.”

# # #

Nghia.Nguyen@asm.ca.gov

916.813.8367 cell

Assemblyman Vince Fong represents the 32 nd Assembly District, which encompasses Kern and Tulare Counties.

January 10, 2023

Press Release

October 26, 2023

October 18, 2023

October 16, 2023

Related Posts