SACRAMENTO – Senate Republican Leader Shannon Grove ( R-Bakersfield ) and Senator Jim Nielsen ( R-Tehama ), Vice Chair of the Senate Budget & Fiscal Review Committee, recently delivered a joint letter to Governor Gavin Newsom requesting that he prioritize the 2021-2022 budget to include funds for jobless Californians, students, and small businesses affected by his shutdowns.

Over the past ten months, the Governor’s shutdowns and COVID-19 challenges have made it difficult for millions of Californians. More than 19,000 small businesses have already closed their doors for good and with them are countless families who depended on that income to pay for food, housing and other necessities.

For millions of California children, 2020 was a lost academic year, which will only worsen if nothing is done.

With an unexpected $26 billion in revenue, this budget must be laser-focused on helping address our most vulnerable populations. Unlike his previous budgets, Governor Newsom can’t squander this one-time money on his pet projects while millions of Californians are suffering.

Senate Republicans’ 2021-2022 Budget Priorities Include:

Prioritize School Openings and Recovery from Loss of Learning for Students Funds also should go to help students confronting new mental health issues brought on by shutdown-induced stresses.

Help Small Businesses the State Forced to Close Senate Republicans support Senate Bill 74, authored by Senator Andreas Borgeas, which would dedicate 10% of the state’s one-time revenue windfall to assisting businesses. This bipartisan proposal can provide billions of dollars to aid businesses and put Californians back to work.

Assistance for Deserving Workers, Not Prisoners The massive failure of California’s Employment Development Department (EDD) is well documented. Senate Republicans support fixing this mess by immediately investing money to ramp up staffing, rework systems, and remove obstacles. Senator Grove introduced Senate Bill 39 to advance badly-needed reforms and Senator Scott Wilk has introduced Senate Bill 58 to reduce the prospects of EDD fraud.

Media can read the letter here .

###

Senate Republican Leader Shannon Grove represents California’s 16th Senate District which encompasses large portions of Kern, Tulare and San Bernardino counties and including the cities of Bakersfield, Barstow, California City, Exeter, Frazier Mountain, Joshua Tree, Mojave, Needles, Ridgecrest, Rosamond, Taft, Tehachapi, Twentynine Palms, Tulare, Visalia, Yucca Valley and portions of the Kern River Valley. Follow her on Facebook and Twitter .

Elected to the State Senate in January 2013, Senator Nielsen represents the Fourth Senate District, which includes the counties of Butte, Colusa, Glenn, Placer, Sacramento, Sutter, Tehama and Yuba. To contact Senator Jim Nielsen, please call him at 916-651-4004, or via email at senator.nielsen@senate.ca.gov . Follow him @CASenatorJim .

Capitol Office

1021 O Street, Room 7150 Sacramento, CA 95814 Phone: (916) 651-4012 Fax: (916) 651-4916

Bakersfield Office

5701 Truxtun Ave., Suite 150 Bakersfield, CA 93309 Phone: (661) 323-0443 Fax: (661) 323-0446

Fresno Office

567 W. Shaw Ave., Suite A-3 Fresno, CA 93704 Phone:  559-243-8580

facebook Facebook

twitter Twitter

instagram Instagram

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

Home

About Shannon Biography Committees 12th Senate District Map

Biography

Committees

12th Senate District Map

Legislation My Legislation Bill Search Submit a Legislative Proposal

My Legislation

Bill Search

Submit a Legislative Proposal

Newsroom Releases / Editorials Photos

Releases / Editorials

Photos

Resources California Senate Fellows Program Coronavirus Information Education Register to Vote Unclaimed Property Veteran Resources

California Senate Fellows Program

Coronavirus Information

Education

Register to Vote

Unclaimed Property

Veteran Resources

Contact me My Offices E-mail the Senator Subscribe

My Offices

E-mail the Senator

Subscribe

Strengthening Families and Children, While Providing Opportunities Now and for Future Generations

More News

View All

Breadcrumb

Aug 29
Senator Shannon Grove Celebrates Advancement of Key Bills for Special Education and Rural Healthcare, Expresses Disappointment Over Scrapping of Leno’s Law
Aug 27
VIDEO: Celebrity advocate Paris Hilton calls for passage of child protection measure ahead of key vote
Aug 25
Senator Shannon Grove and Assemblyman David Tangipa  Honor Retired NFL Quarterback, Derek Carr
Aug 21
Senator Shannon Grove opposes Democrats' attempt to override the will of California voters