By Senator Rosilicie Ochoa Bogh, 23rd Senate District

Summer means outdoor activities, longer days, hot weather, and celebrating new adventures with family and friends making this the perfect time to brush up on summer safety tips.

Be sun and heat smart. Just one blistering sunburn before age 18 more than doubles the chance of developing melanoma as an adult, and on average, a child dies from heatstroke in a vehicle every seven days. Cover up arms and legs when possible, and always wear a hat and sunglasses. UV rays are strongest and most harmful during midday, so plan outdoor activities accordingly. At least 15 minutes before you go outside, liberally apply sunscreen (at least SPF 15) on all exposed skin; reapply it every two hours, especially after swimming or sweating. Seek shade when you need it; stay hydrated. Never leave a child or pet alone in a car, not even for one minute.

Practice good water safety. Protect children from drowning. When kids are in or near water, closely supervise them at all times. Help prevent waterborne illnesses caused by germs and chemicals by keeping up with pool maintenance schedules. Wear life jackets while boating. Properly fitted life jackets can prevent drownings and should be worn at all times by everyone on any boat.

Be all around safe. Injuries are the leading cause of death in children aged 19 and younger, but most child injuries are preventable. Play safe on playgrounds. Read signage and make sure children use age-appropriate playground equipment. Stay smart around the house by following tips on fire prevention, microwave use and living with pets. Prepare for the great outdoors—wear a good bug spray; avoid places where bugs congregate (standing pools of water and tall, dense grass); and avoid snakes’ hiding places (tall grass and piles of leaves, rocks and wood).

Enjoy fireworks safely. Each year more than 10,000 Americans go to the ER due to injury from fireworks; nearly a third of them are children under 15. Read fireworks instructions carefully, and never let young children touch or light them.

Finally, some children may be camping out this summer, and be it a week in the mountains or a sleepover in a friend’s backyard, it’s important children understand that not everyone’s safety and COVID-19 rules are going to be the same. Prepare them for new routines and remind them that the rules are meant to keep everyone healthy and safe. Talking to kids about the changing rules around them will help then understand their surroundings and adjust.

Have a safe and family-fun-filled summer!

Capitol Office

1021 O Street, Room 7220 Sacramento, CA 95814 Phone: (916) 651-4019 Fax: (916) 651-4919

Redlands Office

1758 Orange Tree Lane, Suite B Redlands, CA 92374 Phone: (909) 335-0271 Fax: (909) 335-0282

facebook Facebook

twitter Twitter

instagram Instagram

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

Home

About Rosilicie My Legislation Current Legislation Legislative Accomplishments 2024 Legislative Accomplishments 2023 Legislative Accomplishments 2022-21 Bill Search Committees Biography

My Legislation Current Legislation Legislative Accomplishments 2024 Legislative Accomplishments 2023 Legislative Accomplishments 2022-21 Bill Search

Current Legislation

Legislative Accomplishments 2024

Legislative Accomplishments 2023

Legislative Accomplishments 2022-21

Bill Search

Committees

Biography

District District Map Virtual Insurance Town Hall Virtual PSPS Town Hall Wildfire Resources

District Map

Virtual Insurance Town Hall

Virtual PSPS Town Hall

Wildfire Resources

Newsroom Releases/Editorials

Releases/Editorials

Contact Me Constituent Services E-mail the Senator Look Ahead Mobile Office Hours My Offices State Agencies Subscribe

Constituent Services

E-mail the Senator

Look Ahead

Mobile Office Hours

My Offices

State Agencies

Subscribe

Summer Safety

Breadcrumb