Senator Suzette Martinez Valladares (R-Santa Clarita) celebrated a momentous day with California Senate Republicans as three new members and one returning member of the Senate Republican Caucus were sworn in.

With the California State Senate reaching 50% women for the first time , the Senate Republican Caucus is also celebrating for the first time that a majority of the caucus membership will be women, including three of the six Republican women are Latinas. Senator Valladares is the first Latina Republican to serve in both the Assembly and the Senate.

Senator Valladares is a former Assemblymember with a background in business and operating a non-profit and describes herself as a “wife, mom, and problem-solver.” Joining her at the momentous ceremony were her husband Shane, and daughter Charlotte.

“Californians are increasingly concerned about the future of our state,” said Sen. Valladares . “Today marks the start of a fight for the solutions our communities deserve and I’m both ready and eager to get to work for the people of my district and California. Together we can bring accountability, deliver results, and restore confidence in our state’s leadership.”

This historic election year marks the first time since 1980 that Senate Republicans successfully flipped a seat against an incumbent Democrat during a Presidential General Election. Besides Senator Valladares, Senator Megan Dahle (R-Bieber), Senator Dr. Steven Choi (R-Irvine), and returning member Senator Rosilicie Ochoa Bogh (R-Yucaipa) also took the oath of office at the State Capitol.

Other returning members of the now 9 member Senate Republican Caucus include Senate Minority Leader Brian W. Jones (R-San Diego), Senators Marie Alvarado-Gil (Jackson), Shannon Grove (Bakersfield), Roger Niello (Fair Oaks), and Kelly Seyarto (Murrieta).

Capitol

Valencia Office

25060 West Ave Stanford, Suite 130 Valencia, CA 91355 Phone: (661) 257-1204

Lancaster Office

42505 10th St West Suite 109 Lancaster, CA 93534 Phone: (661) 729-6232

Adelanto Office

11600 Air Expressway Adelanto, CA 92301 Phone: (760) 246-2911

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

<d

Home

About Suzette Biography Committees District Map

Biography

Committees

District Map

Legislation My Legislation Bill Search

My Legislation

Bill Search

Newsroom Releases / Opinions Media Kit

Releases / Opinions

Media Kit

Contact Me Email the Senator My Offices

Email the Senator

My Offices

Suzette Martinez Valladares sworn into the Senate, alongside new diverse class of Senate Republicans

Breadcrumb