Senator Ochoa Bogh (R-Yucaipa) has announced that Governor Gavin Newsom has signed her Senate Bill 722. This bill will require the Department of Social Services (DSS) to create an Incidental Medical Services Plan (IMSP) template so children with disabilities can attend early learning and childcare (ELC) programs in a timely manner.

"We are not just enacting a law with the Governor's signature; we are sending a clear message that every child deserves equal opportunities for early education, regardless of their abilities," said Senator Ochoa Bogh. "This is a significant step toward a more inclusive California. I am grateful for the opportunity to work together to remove barriers to childcare and improve outcomes for children with disabilities and their families."

The signing of SB 722 addresses the longstanding challenges faced by parents of children with disabilities in securing childcare. The previous system, which required ELC providers to amend their Plan of Operation to incorporate an IMSP and then await DSS approval, was identified as cumbersome and led to significant delays. As required by this new law, the introduction of a standardized IMSP template aims to expedite this process and ensure timely access to childcare for children with disabilities.

“Having Senate Bill 722 signed into law is a significant step in ensuring inclusive educational practices,” said Dr. Mary Ann Dewan, Santa Clara County Superintendent of Schools. “Now even the youngest scholars regardless of their abilities will have access to childcare and early learning settings. I am thankful for those who worked on behalf of students to get SB 722 signed into law.”

“We are grateful for Governor Newsom’s continued support of inclusive early childhood education by signing SB 722. At its core, this bill removes administrative barriers that currently prevent children with exceptional needs from attending daycare and preschool programs,” said Dr. Edwin Gomez, Riverside County Superintendent of Schools. “This bill will ensure a streamlined enrollment process for our youngest learners to more rapidly access early intervention services so they are well prepared to enter our school system ready to succeed.”

Recent data has shown that students with disabilities in California lagged significantly behind state standards in key areas like English language arts and math. The signing of SB 722 is a beacon of hope for these students and their families, aiming to bridge this gap and champion the cause of inclusive early education.

Capitol Office

1021 O Street, Room 7220 Sacramento, CA 95814 Phone: (916) 651-4019 Fax: (916) 651-4919

Redlands Office

1758 Orange Tree Lane, Suite B Redlands, CA 92374 Phone: (909) 335-0271 Fax: (909) 335-0282

facebook Facebook

twitter Twitter

instagram Instagram

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

Home

About Rosilicie My Legislation Current Legislation Legislative Accomplishments 2024 Legislative Accomplishments 2023 Legislative Accomplishments 2022-21 Bill Search Committees Biography

My Legislation Current Legislation Legislative Accomplishments 2024 Legislative Accomplishments 2023 Legislative Accomplishments 2022-21 Bill Search

Current Legislation

Legislative Accomplishments 2024

Legislative Accomplishments 2023

Legislative Accomplishments 2022-21

Bill Search

Committees

Biography

District District Map Virtual Insurance Town Hall Virtual PSPS Town Hall Wildfire Resources

District Map

Virtual Insurance Town Hall

Virtual PSPS Town Hall

Wildfire Resources

Newsroom Releases/Editorials

Releases/Editorials

Contact Me Constituent Services E-mail the Senator Look Ahead Mobile Office Hours My Offices State Agencies Subscribe

Constituent Services

E-mail the Senator

Look Ahead

Mobile Office Hours

My Offices

State Agencies

Subscribe

Taking a Pivotal Step toward Inclusive Early Learning for Children with Disabilities, Senate Bill 722 Signed into Law

Breadcrumb