SACRAMENTO – Assemblymember Alanis received a phone call late yesterday afternoon from the Office of the Governor informing him that the Nevaeh Youth Sports Safety Act had been signed into law by Governor Newsom. It is the first bill authored by Assemblymember Alanis that has been chaptered into California law, and is the culmination of a journey that started tragically back in August of 2022.
Nevaeh Johnson, who was ten years old, tragically collapsed at a youth athletics practice in Waterford, California, on August 15th, 2022. At the time, coaches and others around Nevaeh were unaware she was suffering a brain aneurysm. Her heart had stopped, and despite adults attempting Cardio Pulmonary Resuscitation (CPR), ultimately, Nevaeh would not regain consciousness and passed away a few days later. The family believes that if additional lifesaving tools like a working Automated External Defibrillator (AED) had been available, Nevaeh might have had a chance to survive.
“When the family came to my office back in December and asked us to author a law in Nevaeh’s name, I was honored to say yes and get to work on it,” said Assemblymember Alanis. “As a father and grandfather myself, I cannot express in words how proud and honored I am that this is my first piece of legislation that has become law. It is a fitting tribute that Nevaeh, through her name and legacy, will save young lives through this law for years to come.”
The Johnson-Lamunyon Family received a phone call yesterday afternoon from Assemblymember Alanis, who informed and celebrated with them that the Governor signed the bill into law.
“I know that Nevaeh Grace is smiling down on us today,” said Nevaeh’s mother Tiana Lamunyon. “I am incredibly honored and grateful that this bill passed, but I still feel the huge sorrow and loss that brought us here. I hope this bill will help save someone else’s child and prevent other parents from feeling the pain of losing a child. I know my daughter would have fought for change, so that is exactly why we pushed this law in her place. Thank you to Juan Alanis and his team for fighting for this and those who have supported this bill.”
AB 1467, known as the Nevaeh Youth Sports Safety Act, requires youth sports organizations across the state to provide their athletes with access to an AED during official practices and matches. AB 1467 passed unanimously out of both the Assembly and the Senate. The bill was signed into law on June 29th, 2023, by Governor Newsom.