Once again, our state’s supermajority is making major financial decisions in the dark. This time, taking out a $3.44 billion loan to cover a massive gap in the budget largely due to the expansion of Medical to undocumented adults. This is a financial mess that leaves taxpayers on the hook. $3.44 billion loan is a far too large a sum to simply pass through with virtually no detail. A public hearing should be required to discuss and vote on this loan.

Here are some news articles related to the issue.

CalMatters: It’s costing California more than expected to provide immigrant health care. Is coverage at risk?

Sen. Roger Niello, a long-time critic of the state’s closed-door budgeting process, which is typically hashed out between Democratic leaders and the governor, acknowledged that other factors like senior enrollment and high drug costs could be contributing to the high expenses. He said Republicans are worried about increasing spending on immigrant health care.

The Republican from Roseville criticized the lack of transparency from Newsom’s finance department.

“The completely opaque nature of the request, which says nothing about any of that, is entirely inappropriate,” Niello said.

Politico: California lawmakers demand answers on Medicaid shortfall

But the news Wednesday of the shortfall prompted calls from both Democratic and Republican lawmakers for more information on how big the problem is and where the extra costs are coming from.

“There are all these issues that I’m willing to admit are part of it, but we won’t know, the citizens won’t know, unless we have a [budget] hearing on this,” said Republican state Sen. Roger Niello.

Sacramento Bee: California Republican lawmakers raise questions about $3.4B loan to bail out Medi-Cal

KCRA: California needs $3.4B loan to cover health care costs as state provides insurance to undocumented residents

Fox 40: Gov. Newsom announces $3.4 billion loan to fund Medi-Cal amid concerns over funds for undocumented

CalMatters WhatMatters: CA borrows $3.4B to cover Medi-Cal budget gap Sen. Roger Niello , a Roseville Republican and vice chairperson of the budget committee, said that “the completely opaque nature of the request … is entirely inappropriate.”

Sacramento Bee Capitol Alert

Quote of the Day - “So you folks think this is news? This is standard operating budget procedure by the Democratic supermajority. They do everything in the dark.” — State Sen. Roger Niello, R-Roseville, on the $3.44 billion loan given to the Department of Health Care Services to pay for unexpectedly high Medi-Cal costs.

KFBK: Senator Roger Niello joined the KFBK Morning News to discuss what is going on with the state's MediCal

Capitol

Roseville

2200A Douglas Blvd, Ste 100 Roseville, CA 95661 Phone: (916) 772-0571 Fax: (916) 772-0589

Rancho Cordova

2729 Prospect Park Drive, Suite 130 Rancho Cordova, CA 95670 Phone: (916) 464-3980 Fax: (916) 464-3985

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

<d

Home

About Roger Biography Committees

Biography

Committees

Legislation Bill Search

Bill Search

Newsroom Press Releases District Messages In The News Audio / Video Photo Gallery

Press Releases

District Messages

In The News

Audio / Video

Photo Gallery

Contact Me Email the Senator My Offices District Map Subscribe

Email the Senator

My Offices

District Map

Subscribe

“They do everything in the dark.” - Senator Niello Responds to the $3.44 Billion Loan to Fund Medical’s Budget Gap

Breadcrumb