Senator Rosilicie Ochoa Bogh displayed thousands of signed petitions from upset residents in her district about the rise in monthly utility bills.

Senator Rosilicie Ochoa Bogh ( R-Yucaipa ) has heard from thousands of concerned residents who signed a petition urging the California Public Utilities Commission (CPUC) to reconsider its decision and reject the rise in monthly utility bills by an added fixed charge.

"The proposal by the CPUC to impose an uncapped $24.15 fixed charge on electrical bills is deeply concerning," said Senator Ochoa Bogh. "This fee, which can be increased at any point by the unelected board, places an unnecessary burden on consumers. I encourage all Californians to make their voices heard and let the CPUC know, enough is enough!"

The petition , led by Senator Ochoa Bogh, allows Californians struggling with our state's already high cost of living to join the fight against higher utility bills.

The California Public Utilities Commission (CPUC) recently voted to raise monthly utility bills by adding a fixed charge of more than $24 per month. Senator Ochoa Bogh, along with her Republican colleagues , urged the CPUC to reject this proposal and protect Californians from unjustified and escalating utility costs.

To everyone's disappointment, the CPUC voted to raise consumers' monthly utility bills .

Similarity, the proposed increases in gas prices by the California Air Resources Board (CARB), including mandates under the Low Carbon Fuel Standard (LCFS) and further restrictions to the cap-and-trade program, are not just troubling, but potentially devastating for Californians.

Earlier this month , Legislative Republicans called on the California Air Resources Board to be honest and transparent about the impact a series of proposed regulations will have on California's runaway gas prices.

"And we wonder why the cost of living is so high. Californians need a break! I am committed to working with my colleagues to address immediate concerns and create long-term stability and affordability in California. Together, we can make California a place where every hardworking family can thrive," concluded Senator Ochoa Bogh.

The Senate Republican Caucus has collectively received nearly six thousand petitions, which will be delivered to the CPUC and CARB this week.

Capitol Office

1021 O Street, Room 7220 Sacramento, CA 95814 Phone: (916) 651-4019 Fax: (916) 651-4919

Redlands Office

1758 Orange Tree Lane, Suite B Redlands, CA 92374 Phone: (909) 335-0271 Fax: (909) 335-0282

facebook Facebook

twitter Twitter

instagram Instagram

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

Home

About Rosilicie My Legislation Current Legislation Legislative Accomplishments 2024 Legislative Accomplishments 2023 Legislative Accomplishments 2022-21 Bill Search Committees Biography

My Legislation Current Legislation Legislative Accomplishments 2024 Legislative Accomplishments 2023 Legislative Accomplishments 2022-21 Bill Search

Current Legislation

Legislative Accomplishments 2024

Legislative Accomplishments 2023

Legislative Accomplishments 2022-21

Bill Search

Committees

Biography

District District Map Virtual Insurance Town Hall Virtual PSPS Town Hall Wildfire Resources

District Map

Virtual Insurance Town Hall

Virtual PSPS Town Hall

Wildfire Resources

Newsroom Releases/Editorials

Releases/Editorials

Contact Me Constituent Services E-mail the Senator Look Ahead Mobile Office Hours My Offices State Agencies Subscribe

Constituent Services

E-mail the Senator

Look Ahead

Mobile Office Hours

My Offices

State Agencies

Subscribe

Thousands sign a petition to tell the CPUC:  NO HIGHER UTILITY BILLS!

Breadcrumb