Click here to watch the video.

I marked 100 days in office as a State Senator proudly representing California’s 36th Senate District. Since taking office, I have been working hard to restore common sense in Sacramento, put public safety first, and deliver real results Californians can feel.

“For far too long, Sacramento has ignored the basic needs of Californians — choosing pet projects over our communities’ priorities. In my first 100 days as your state senator, I am working hard to prioritize public safety, eliminate government waste, and make life easier for families who are struggling financially as a result of the high cost of living in California.”

On March 11, I took the Oath of Office with my family by my side. Click here to listen to my remarks during my press conference.

Prioritizing Public Safety:

Since taking office in March, I have been a leading voice to fully-fund Proposition 36, the anti-crime initiative.

CBS News reported : "People want public safety to be the top priority. This Governor and this legislature is ignoring the voices and will of the people of California," said Sen. Tony Strickland, (R) Huntington Beach.

My Op-ed on Prop. 36 was published in the Sacramento Bee : “ … In the governor’s January budget, Prop. 36 received zero proposed funding. And as recently as early-April, Senate Democrats rejected an amendment that I introduced to add Prop. 36 funding to the state budget. …”

Click here to watch my remarks at a Prop. 36 press conference held on June 9.

Eliminating Government Waste:

As Vice Chair of the Senate Transportation Committee, I have been vocal about pulling the plug on the mismanaged high-speed rail project. “We’ve now spent billions of dollars and really no tracks have been laid,” said Republican state Sen. Tony Strickland. Click here to read Associated Press reporter Sophie Austin’s story and watch my interview with the AP.

When the news broke that the high-speed rail project needed an additional $3.2 billion in order to complete the Bakersfield to Merced line, which is on top of the already existing $7 billion budget gap that was already reported, as the Senate Transportation Vice Chair, I told media outlets:

ABC 10 Jeannie Nguyen reported : "After the $10.2 billion, if it goes forward, it is more expensive than the whole entire project that was proposed to the people of California," said Sen. Strickland.

KCRA Ashley Zavala reported : “The high-speed rail project continues to suffer from self-inflicted wounds, and I am extremely disturbed to learn about this latest information, which further erodes the public’s trust in a project as proposed will never be built,” said Huntington Beach Republican State Sen. Tony Strickland , the vice chairman of the Senate’s transportation committee.

During a Senate floor vote on the budget, I offered amendments to defund the high-speed rail and reduce the gas tax. "Democrats talk about affordability in California. Don't listen to the rhetoric—look at their record. This is an example of why we need new leadership in California to make it golden again," said Senator Strickland.

Click here to watch his floor speech on March 20.

Fighting the Affordability Crisis:

In my fight to Make California Affordable Again, I rallied Southern California residents to voice their opposition on a government mandate that may worsen the affordability crisis and would have required residents in the counties of Los Angeles, Orange, Riverside, and San Bernardino to dump their operational gas furnaces and heaters and replace with more expensive, electric units. I offered affordability amendments on the Senate floor for a vote but Democrats rejected his measure.

Click here to listen to his remarks from June 6.

In an interview with the Los Angeles Times , I stated, “Families living paycheck to paycheck can’t afford this kind of mandate,” and added that the cost of living in California is 42% higher than the national average.

I signed a letter and called on California’s U.S Senators to do the right thing and repeal California’s strict EV mandate. FOX News National interviewed me where I weighed in and once again, expressed my concerns about the cost of electric vehicles and California’s lack of infrastructure to accommodate millions of EVs. “Not everyone can afford a $40,000 to $60,000… We also don’t have enough energy capacity,” said Senator Strickland who serves on the Senate Energy, Utilities and Communications Committee.

Click here to watch his interview with FOX News National on May 23.

“California faces many challenges in reaching another unrealistic goal set by the governor. These include not enough energy capacity, poor infrastructure, and too few public electric charging stations,” said state Sen. Transportation Committee Vice Chair Tony Strickland, R-Huntington Beach , to The Center Square .

District-focused Events

In May, I celebrated the grand opening of his district office in Huntington Beach with community leaders, elected officials, and families who live in California Senate District 36. Click here to view photos from the momentous occasion and click here to read the Event-News Enterprise story.

I recognized the Pacific Marine Mammal Center as the Non-profit of the Year for Senate District 36. PMMC CEO Glenn Gray joined me on the Senate Floor for the occasion. Click here to read the story in the Laguna Beach Independent.

Capitol:

District Office:

301 Main Street, Suite 212 Huntington Beach, CA 92648 (714) 374-4000

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

<d

Home

About Tony Biography Committees

Biography

Committees

Newsroom Releases / Opinions Newsletters Audio / Video Photos

Releases / Opinions

Newsletters

Audio / Video

Photos

Contact Me District Map My Offices Scheduling Requests

District Map

My Offices

Scheduling Requests

Three Takeaways from My First 100 Days  as a State Senator

Breadcrumb