A recent Times of San Diego opinion piece touts Senate Minority Leader Brian W. Jones (R-San Diego) for his effectiveness in Sacramento as the Senate Minority Leader. The piece explains Jones leads his caucus as the “loyal opposition” with a focus on bipartisanship to make meaningful change as well as participating in the governance process of the state. Read the piece here .

“As we reflect on 2023, I’m proud of the bipartisan work we’ve accomplished while also holding the Democrat supermajority responsible for major issues facing Californians such as homelessness, crime, and affordability,” said Leader Jones. “Heading into 2024, I plan to continue leading the Senate Republican Caucus as the ‘loyal opposition’ and staying laser-focused on fixing California.”

The Times of San Diego opinion piece by Editor Chris Jennewein, San Diego’s Brian Jones Helps Build an Effective ‘Loyal Opposition’ in Sacramento , explains Jones’s effective leadership philosophy. Below is an excerpt of the piece:

“… Jones is just one year into his second term and building a reputation for bipartisan effectiveness. He’s focusing on California’s issues rather than the latest culture war dust-up on national cable news...

“…Now he’s building other relationships across the aisle, and points to success in the Senate with legislation such as an audit of the state’s placement program for sexually violent criminals and the unanimous passage in the Senate of a law making sex trafficking of a minor a three-strikes offense…

“…But his stance is not all bipartisan. He believes Californians are fed up with both the Governor and the Legislature, and pins the blame on 40 years of Democratic control…

“…For now, he is arguably the ‘biggest cheerleader’ of a new bipartisan approach in Sacramento focused on getting things done for California and steering clear of the national political battles…”

Capitol Office

1021 O Street, Room 7640 Sacramento, CA 95814 Phone: (916) 651-4040 Fax: (916) 651-4940

Scripps Ranch Office

10650 Treena Street #110 San Diego, CA 92131 Phone: (858) 547-3818

Escondido Office

720 N. Broadway, Suite 110 Escondido, CA 92025 Phone: (760) 796-4655

facebook Facebook

twitter Twitter

instagram Instagram

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

Home

About Brian Biography

Biography

Legislation My Legislation Committees Bill Search

My Legislation

Committees

Bill Search

Newsroom Releases/Editorials In The News Audio/Video Are You Kidding Me? Photos Media Kit

Releases/Editorials

In The News

Audio/Video

Are You Kidding Me?

Photos

Media Kit

Contact Me Certificate Request District Internship Program District Map E-mail the Senator Legislative Proposal My Offices Subscribe to the Mailing List

Certificate Request

District Internship Program

District Map

E-mail the Senator

Legislative Proposal

My Offices

Subscribe to the Mailing List

Times of San Diego Editor Highlights Leader Jones’s ‘Effective’ Leadership for California

More News

ICYMI

View All

Breadcrumb

Aug 6
California Republicans’ Growing Impact on Social Media
Jul 16
Leader Jones Stands on Steps of the Capitol Opposing the Anti-Charter School Bill
Jul 16
AB 84 Charter Schools Press Conference
Jul 15
Leader Jones Demands Accountability on Dangerous Sexually Violent Predator Program

Jun 17
2025
$8-a-gallon gas? Senate Minority Leader Brian W. Jones requests audit of gas price hikes
Jun 9
2025
Nixed bill could have prevented LA unrest, California minority leader says
Jun 8
2025
California lawmaker warns Menendez brothers' case is driving return of bill to release thousands of killers
Jun 3
2025
Ramona nonprofit, resident recognized with Senate District 40 awards