“Not a single word in Gavin Newsom’s Executive Order will make it easier for fire victims to rebuild – and that is why a Special Session of the Legislature must be immediately convened to slash regulations and streamline the process.”
– CA State Representative Carl DeMaio
On Friday, CA State Representative Carl DeMaio called on Governor Gavin Newsom to convene a Special Session of the State Legislature to slash red tape and streamline the rebuilding process for victims of the LA fires. By Sunday morning, Newsom responded with what DeMaio calls a “meaningless order that is just pretending to provide regulatory relief to fire victims — and serves only to provide political relief to Newsom.”
“Gavin Newsom knows his order today is a sham move designed to simply give him political cover,” DeMaio says. “I urge the media to read the order carefully and consult housing experts who can confirm that fire victims will receive no benefit from today’s order,” DeMaio warned.
DeMaio says existing state law already allows what Newsom is touting in his Executive Order. In fact, current language in the California Environmental Quality Act and California Coastal Act already allow for review exemptions for structures that are substantially similar to the ones destroyed in fires. Newsom’s Executive Order simply restates existing law — without making any improvements.
“We need to slash red tape NOW – while the public outcry demands it,” says DeMaio. “The only way to provide fire victims with the assured relief they deserve is to pass clear statutory language exempting them from a wide-range of crazy regulations and insane building code requirements imposed by California but not required in any other state,” DeMaio says.
DeMaio knows firsthand the problems fire victims will face — having served as a San Diego City Councilmember from 2008-2012 and tasked with helping victims of the Witch and Creek fires rebuild while in local office.
On Monday afternoon, DeMaio will be holding a press conference with fellow Republican state legislators to release specific proposals for providing fire victims relief and to impose accountability reforms to improve California’s ability to prevent and respond to fires in the future.
DeMaio is available by phone or zoom for interviews — or in-person at the State Capitol.
###