With the inauguration of Governor Gavin Newsom’s second term to take place this morning, the California Senate Republican Caucus shares a list of the governor’s top 10 failures that have impacted families under his dismal leadership.

Senate Minority Leader Brian W. Jones (R-San Diego) released the following statement:

“The governor of a state with the most homeless people living out on the streets sure has a high opinion of himself. While he flaunts so-called accomplishments, families are suffering because he is failing to lead. This state has broken under his watch. My caucus and I are working to hold government accountable and fix California.”

Countdown to Newsom’s Top 10 Leadership Failures:

10. Homelessness – The latest data shows California is home to America’s most homeless despite spending more than $20 billion of taxpayer dollars under Newsom’s leadership. The homeless crisis continues to spiral out of control.

9. Drought – California is being pummeled by several atmospheric river storms , yet we lack the water storage to capture it. Newsom has not delivered one extra drop of water to farmworkers and farmers in the state as California crops are being devastated because of the drought.

8. High Gas Prices - As a benefactor of the Getty oil money fortune , our dear governor has proposed a so-called “Windfall Profits Tax” on the state’s gasoline industry in the name of lowering gas prices. In fact, Newsom’s proposal would only hike up the cost of gasoline at the pump .

7. Early Release of Convicted Felons – Through an Executive Order, the governor’s California Department of Corrections and Rehabilitation made it easier for t h ousands of convicted felons to be eligible for early release with little transparency .

6. Education Failures –  According to statewide test scores released by the California Department of Education, 2/3 of California students failed to meet Math standards and more than half of California students did not meet the state’s English standards.

5. Businesses Fleeing California – Stanford University Hoover Institution Study reveals that businesses are leaving the state twice as fast as years prior. Businesses forced to flee are taking revenue, jobs, and opportunities with them.

4. EDD – Newsom ordered California’s businesses to shut down leaving hundreds of thousands of Californians unemployed. In a disorganized scramble to get out unemployment benefits, Newsom’s Employment Development Department sent out $33 billion in unemployment fraud . The number may be higher.

3. French Laundry Scandal/NFL Luxury Suite Scandal – During the coronavirus surge, Newsom attended a swanky dinner at the expensive French Laundry even though he discouraged Californians from traveling during the holidays and partied maskless in an NFL Luxury Suite despite state masking orders. Rules for thee but not for me, right governor?

2. Wildfire Prevention Efforts - An investigation from CapRadio and NPR’s California Newsroom found the governor overstated, by an astounding 690%, the number of acres treated with fuel breaks and prescribed burns. Newsom claimed that 35 “priority projects” were carried out as a result of his executive order which resulted in 90,000 acres being treated. But the state’s own data shows the actual number was only 11,399 acres.

1. High-Speed Rail - In his first State of the State remarks in 2019 , Newsom declared his intentions to pull the plug on the massive public works failure known as the High-Speed Rail. Since then, he has flip-flopped and has been pouring billions of taxpayer dollars into this money pit .

Capitol Office

1021 O Street, Room 7640 Sacramento, CA 95814 Phone: (916) 651-4040 Fax: (916) 651-4940

Scripps Ranch Office

10650 Treena Street #110 San Diego, CA 92131 Phone: (858) 547-3818

Escondido Office

720 N. Broadway, Suite 110 Escondido, CA 92025 Phone: (760) 796-4655

facebook Facebook

twitter Twitter

instagram Instagram

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

Home

About Brian Biography

Biography

Legislation My Legislation Committees Bill Search

My Legislation

Committees

Bill Search

Newsroom Releases/Editorials In The News Audio/Video Are You Kidding Me? Photos Media Kit

Releases/Editorials

In The News

Audio/Video

Are You Kidding Me?

Photos

Media Kit

Contact Me Certificate Request District Internship Program District Map E-mail the Senator Legislative Proposal My Offices Subscribe to the Mailing List

Certificate Request

District Internship Program

District Map

E-mail the Senator

Legislative Proposal

My Offices

Subscribe to the Mailing List

Top 10 Failures of Governor Newsom as His Second Term Begins

More News

ICYMI

View All

Breadcrumb

Aug 6
California Republicans’ Growing Impact on Social Media
Jul 16
Leader Jones Stands on Steps of the Capitol Opposing the Anti-Charter School Bill
Jul 16
AB 84 Charter Schools Press Conference
Jul 15
Leader Jones Demands Accountability on Dangerous Sexually Violent Predator Program

Jun 17
2025
$8-a-gallon gas? Senate Minority Leader Brian W. Jones requests audit of gas price hikes
Jun 9
2025
Nixed bill could have prevented LA unrest, California minority leader says
Jun 8
2025
California lawmaker warns Menendez brothers' case is driving return of bill to release thousands of killers
Jun 3
2025
Ramona nonprofit, resident recognized with Senate District 40 awards