Two measures, authored by Senator Brian W. Jones (R-Santee), were both unanimously given final legislative approval by the California State Senate.

Jones’s Senate Bill 400 would implement a recommendation from the State Auditor regarding the tracking and assisting of homeless students.  Local school districts are already required under federal law to provide homeless youth with referrals to existing local community organizations that provide services such as counseling, meals, and housing.  Specifically, SB 400 would simply require the California Department of Education to verify that local school districts throughout the state are in fact identifying and assisting youth who experiencing homelessness.

“Homeless students are more likely to miss classes, have a tougher time concentrating, and are more likely to drop out than students with stable housing,” stated Senator Brian Jones.  “While our measure will not solve the entire homeless problem, it is a compassionate and focused approach to help students without housing.  It will ensure the state and local school districts better utilize federal funding, more effectively partner with established community organizations, and ultimately help students do better in school and complete their education.”

Senate Bill 584, also authored by Jones, expands previous legislation (AB 865 by Assemblymember Eloise Gomez Reyes – 2019), which required resource family training to educate foster parents on how to care for children who have experienced, or are at risk of experiencing, commercial sexual exploitation (child sex trafficking).  However, the chaptered version of that bill did not include training on child labor trafficking, despite its prevalence in California, specifically among foster youth.  SB 584 adds “child labor trafficking” to the list of subjects foster families are required to receive training and information about.

“Unfortunately, foster kids in particular are vulnerable to being targeted by criminals for child labor trafficking,” stated Senator Brian Jones.  “The world is already challenging enough for foster kids and we need to help prevent the threat of them being forced into child labor trafficking.  SB 584 will require that the family training already provided to foster parents also includes information to help protect children who have been victims of child labor trafficking or are more likely to become targets of child labor trafficking.”

SB 584 is based on recommendations of, and is supported by, the California Little Hoover Commission and the Coalition to Abolish Slavery and Trafficking.

Both SB 400 and 584 now go to the Governor for his signature.

Capitol Office

1021 O Street, Room 7640 Sacramento, CA 95814 Phone: (916) 651-4040 Fax: (916) 651-4940

Scripps Ranch Office

10650 Treena Street #110 San Diego, CA 92131 Phone: (858) 547-3818

Escondido Office

720 N. Broadway, Suite 110 Escondido, CA 92025 Phone: (760) 796-4655

facebook Facebook

twitter Twitter

instagram Instagram

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

Home

About Brian Biography

Biography

Legislation My Legislation Committees Bill Search

My Legislation

Committees

Bill Search

Newsroom Releases/Editorials In The News Audio/Video Are You Kidding Me? Photos Media Kit

Releases/Editorials

In The News

Audio/Video

Are You Kidding Me?

Photos

Media Kit

Contact Me Certificate Request District Internship Program District Map E-mail the Senator Legislative Proposal My Offices Subscribe to the Mailing List

Certificate Request

District Internship Program

District Map

E-mail the Senator

Legislative Proposal

My Offices

Subscribe to the Mailing List

Two of Jones’s measures Helping Kids gain Final Legislative Approval

More News

ICYMI

View All

Breadcrumb

Aug 6
California Republicans’ Growing Impact on Social Media
Jul 16
Leader Jones Stands on Steps of the Capitol Opposing the Anti-Charter School Bill
Jul 16
AB 84 Charter Schools Press Conference
Jul 15
Leader Jones Demands Accountability on Dangerous Sexually Violent Predator Program

Jun 17
2025
$8-a-gallon gas? Senate Minority Leader Brian W. Jones requests audit of gas price hikes
Jun 9
2025
Nixed bill could have prevented LA unrest, California minority leader says
Jun 8
2025
California lawmaker warns Menendez brothers' case is driving return of bill to release thousands of killers
Jun 3
2025
Ramona nonprofit, resident recognized with Senate District 40 awards