SACRAMENTO - Senate Republican Leader Shannon Grove (R-Bakersfield) issued the following statement after Senate Bill 27 was signed into law. Legislative Republicans voted against SB 27, but legislative Democrats pushed for it because of their hostility toward the current U.S. President.

The newly-signed legislation requires a candidate for U.S. President or California Governor who wants to be on the state ballot to file copies of their federal income tax return from the five most recent taxable years with California Secretary of State.

"Regardless of the political affiliation of the current President of the United States, this individual deserves our respect. Here in California, we call on the President when disaster strikes and he has come through for us time and time again. Whether it is multiple wildfires or the failure of the Oroville Dam, the President delivered with federal aid.

"California has tangible issues affecting our families such as high gas taxes, homelessness, and housing affordability. One poll even stated that 53% of Californians want to flee the Golden State. Yet, Sacramento Democrats continue to focus on the President instead of being focused on issues that affect every day Californians' lives.

"Governor Brown vetoed similar legislation saying this requirement is unconstitutional, and I am confident the courts will agree," said Senate Republican Leader Shannon Grove.

Capitol Office

1021 O Street, Room 7150 Sacramento, CA 95814 Phone: (916) 651-4012 Fax: (916) 651-4916

Bakersfield Office

5701 Truxtun Ave., Suite 150 Bakersfield, CA 93309 Phone: (661) 323-0443 Fax: (661) 323-0446

Fresno Office

567 W. Shaw Ave., Suite A-3 Fresno, CA 93704 Phone:  559-243-8580

facebook Facebook

twitter Twitter

instagram Instagram

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

Home

About Shannon Biography Committees 12th Senate District Map

Biography

Committees

12th Senate District Map

Legislation My Legislation Bill Search Submit a Legislative Proposal

My Legislation

Bill Search

Submit a Legislative Proposal

Newsroom Releases / Editorials Photos

Releases / Editorials

Photos

Resources California Senate Fellows Program Coronavirus Information Education Register to Vote Unclaimed Property Veteran Resources

California Senate Fellows Program

Coronavirus Information

Education

Register to Vote

Unclaimed Property

Veteran Resources

Contact me My Offices E-mail the Senator Subscribe

My Offices

E-mail the Senator

Subscribe

Unconstitutional Tax Legislation Will Restrict Voter Choice

More News

View All

Breadcrumb

Aug 29
Senator Shannon Grove Celebrates Advancement of Key Bills for Special Education and Rural Healthcare, Expresses Disappointment Over Scrapping of Leno’s Law
Aug 27
VIDEO: Celebrity advocate Paris Hilton calls for passage of child protection measure ahead of key vote
Aug 25
Senator Shannon Grove and Assemblyman David Tangipa  Honor Retired NFL Quarterback, Derek Carr
Aug 21
Senator Shannon Grove opposes Democrats' attempt to override the will of California voters