Senate Minority Leader Brian Jones ( R-San Diego) highlights the remarkable journey of Robert Wynne, who was formerly incarcerated and turned his life around through CAL FIRE's Conservation (Fire) Camp Program. After joining the program, Wynne worked his way up the ranks and now proudly serves as a fire captain. Click here to watch the video of the conversation.

“Robert’s story is one of redemption, resilience, and determination,” said Leader Jones. “It shows that with the right support, anyone can rise above their past mistakes and make an extraordinary impact. Programs like California’s Conservation (Fire) Camp provide second chances through hard work and dedication. Robert’s success as a fire captain and his commitment to public service inspire hope for anyone who values accountability and transformation. California needs more leaders like Robert—leaders who are willing to speak the truth, take responsibility, and work towards meaningful change.”

In the interview with Leader Jones, Wynne reflects on how he turned his life around to serve his community, inspire hope in others, and advocate for political change in California. The conversation explores his journey of overcoming adversity, the lessons he’s learned along the way, and his vision for a better future in California.

“If my story can inspire just one person to make a change in their life, then I’ve done my job,” said Wynne. “It’s about creating an environment where all Californians have the opportunity to succeed.”

During their conversation , Wynne expressed hope for California’s future, citing the need to rebuild trust between government and the people it serves. He pointed to key priorities like reducing taxes, increasing affordability, and promoting transparency.

"Having overcome adversity, I believe that strong family values and personal responsibility are key to building a better future,” said Wynne. “I very much align with the Republican principles of family, limited government, and empowering individuals to succeed. California needs change, and I believe that Leader Jones is moving us in the right direction. I’m grateful for his leadership and commitment to our shared values."

Capitol Office

1021 O Street, Room 7640 Sacramento, CA 95814 Phone: (916) 651-4040 Fax: (916) 651-4940

Scripps Ranch Office

10650 Treena Street #110 San Diego, CA 92131 Phone: (858) 547-3818

Escondido Office

720 N. Broadway, Suite 110 Escondido, CA 92025 Phone: (760) 796-4655

facebook Facebook

twitter Twitter

instagram Instagram

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

Home

About Brian Biography

Biography

Legislation My Legislation Committees Bill Search

My Legislation

Committees

Bill Search

Newsroom Releases/Editorials In The News Audio/Video Are You Kidding Me? Photos Media Kit

Releases/Editorials

In The News

Audio/Video

Are You Kidding Me?

Photos

Media Kit

Contact Me Certificate Request District Internship Program District Map E-mail the Senator Legislative Proposal My Offices Subscribe to the Mailing List

Certificate Request

District Internship Program

District Map

E-mail the Senator

Legislative Proposal

My Offices

Subscribe to the Mailing List

VIDEO: Leader Jones Highlights Inspiring Story of Robert Wynne

More News

ICYMI

View All

Breadcrumb

Aug 6
California Republicans’ Growing Impact on Social Media
Jul 16
Leader Jones Stands on Steps of the Capitol Opposing the Anti-Charter School Bill
Jul 16
AB 84 Charter Schools Press Conference
Jul 15
Leader Jones Demands Accountability on Dangerous Sexually Violent Predator Program

Jun 17
2025
$8-a-gallon gas? Senate Minority Leader Brian W. Jones requests audit of gas price hikes
Jun 9
2025
Nixed bill could have prevented LA unrest, California minority leader says
Jun 8
2025
California lawmaker warns Menendez brothers' case is driving return of bill to release thousands of killers
Jun 3
2025
Ramona nonprofit, resident recognized with Senate District 40 awards