Today, celebrity advocate Paris Hilton called for passage of Senator Shannon Grove’s (R-Bakersfield) SB 373 ahead of a key vote in the Assembly Appropriations Committee on Friday. This bipartisan measure, sponsored by Hilton’s nonprofit 11:11 Media Impact, would help protect California’s most vulnerable youth in nonpublic schools. In addition to releasing a video, Hilton also published an op-ed in the Sacramento Bee this week sharing her story and outlining why she is supporting the measure.

Click here to view and download vertical and horizontal videos of Hilton's advocacy. Video courtesy: 11:11 Media Impact

“This session I’m proud to sponsor SB 373 to protect California children who are sent to out of state residential facilities. Right now, too many of these kids are left unseen and unheard without regular visits by adults entrusted with their care and education,” said Paris Hilton. “Children deserve a voice, especially when they’re far away from home. With the critical vote ahead, I’m asking California lawmakers to support SB 373 and take a stand against institutional child abuse.”

Certified Nonpublic Schools (NPSs) are private institutions that serve public school students with disabilities whose needs cannot be met in a traditional classroom. These schools are funded by local school districts and overseen by the California Department of Education (CDE).

“Almost 300 California children remain in these out-of-state facilities, often isolated from their families and with little oversight to ensure their safety,” said Senator Grove. “The state has a responsibility to protect these students’ safety, dignity, and well-being through real accountability and meaningful safeguards. I deeply appreciate the partnership of Paris Hilton and 11:11 Media Impact. Every child deserves to be safe, supported, and valued.”

In recent years, the state has taken steps to stop placing foster youth in out-of-state facilities after widespread reports of mistreatment. Yet under the IEP process, students with disabilities can still be placed in the very same institutions, some with records of abuse and mistreatment.

The Assembly Appropriations Committee will vote on SB 373 this Friday, August 29, 2025. For more information, follow @ShannonGroveCA.

Capitol Office

1021 O Street, Room 7150 Sacramento, CA 95814 Phone: (916) 651-4012 Fax: (916) 651-4916

Bakersfield Office

5701 Truxtun Ave., Suite 150 Bakersfield, CA 93309 Phone: (661) 323-0443 Fax: (661) 323-0446

Fresno Office

567 W. Shaw Ave., Suite A-3 Fresno, CA 93704 Phone:  559-243-8580

facebook Facebook

twitter Twitter

instagram Instagram

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

Home

About Shannon Biography Committees 12th Senate District Map

Biography

Committees

12th Senate District Map

Legislation My Legislation Bill Search Submit a Legislative Proposal

My Legislation

Bill Search

Submit a Legislative Proposal

Newsroom Releases / Editorials Photos

Releases / Editorials

Photos

Resources California Senate Fellows Program Coronavirus Information Education Register to Vote Unclaimed Property Veteran Resources

California Senate Fellows Program

Coronavirus Information

Education

Register to Vote

Unclaimed Property

Veteran Resources

Contact me My Offices E-mail the Senator Subscribe

My Offices

E-mail the Senator

Subscribe

VIDEO: Celebrity advocate Paris Hilton calls for passage of child protection measure ahead of key vote

More News

View All

Breadcrumb

Aug 29
Senator Shannon Grove Celebrates Advancement of Key Bills for Special Education and Rural Healthcare, Expresses Disappointment Over Scrapping of Leno’s Law
Aug 27
VIDEO: Celebrity advocate Paris Hilton calls for passage of child protection measure ahead of key vote
Aug 25
Senator Shannon Grove and Assemblyman David Tangipa  Honor Retired NFL Quarterback, Derek Carr
Aug 21
Senator Shannon Grove opposes Democrats' attempt to override the will of California voters