Today, Senate Minority Leader Brian W. Jones (R-San Diego) released a four-minute video exposing the dangerous failures of the Biden Administration’s open border policy in San Diego. The video also highlights the alarming fiscal irresponsibility of California Democrat politicians who are lavishing free healthcare for all illegal immigrants. Click here to watch "The Crisis Point: Examining Illegal Immigration at the California Border. "

“On the tour, we learned that Border Patrol agents are under a gag order, so since they can’t talk to the public, we’re telling the story for them,” said Leader Jones. “We’re releasing footage from our tour and exposing the chaotic and dangerous situation at the open border. San Diego is a leading hot-spot for illegal immigration and my constituents are bearing the brunt of the federal government’s failure. I’m calling on the Biden Administration to close the border to new illegal immigrants immediately and get this national security crisis under control.”

For the first time in 25 years, San Diego has become the top region along the southern border for migrant arrivals. Jones explains in the video that while past migrants predominantly came from impoverished South American countries, today’s illegal migrants are arriving from all over the world. For example, the San Diego border has seen a 500% rise in Chinese migrants detained compared to last year.

“Despite the invasion of illegal immigrants and a staggering $73 billion budget deficit, Governor Newsom and Democrat politicians are forging ahead with expanding free healthcare to all illegal immigrants in California—to the tune of $5 billion a year! Shameful and unacceptable! While Democrats slash funding to our kids’ schools, they exacerbate the immigration crisis with government handouts that we literally cannot afford,” continued Leader Jones.

During Governor Newsom’s May Revise budget presentation, he doubled down on Democrats’ intent to expand tax-payer-funded healthcare to all illegal immigrants. Since January, Leader Jones has strongly urged the governor to pause this healthcare expansion and safeguard core government functions, such as education, while legislators work to balance the budget.

Leader Jones has been deeply engaged with the border crisis for years as it continues to impact the daily lives of his constituents. Last year, he visited the San Diego border on a bipartisan tour to learn more about the crisis on the ground. Read more about the tour here .

Capitol Office

1021 O Street, Room 7640 Sacramento, CA 95814 Phone: (916) 651-4040 Fax: (916) 651-4940

Scripps Ranch Office

10650 Treena Street #110 San Diego, CA 92131 Phone: (858) 547-3818

Escondido Office

720 N. Broadway, Suite 110 Escondido, CA 92025 Phone: (760) 796-4655

facebook Facebook

twitter Twitter

instagram Instagram

email

facebook

twitter

reddit

Home

About Brian Biography

Biography

Legislation My Legislation Committees Bill Search

My Legislation

Committees

Bill Search

Newsroom Releases/Editorials In The News Audio/Video Are You Kidding Me? Photos Media Kit

Releases/Editorials

In The News

Audio/Video

Are You Kidding Me?

Photos

Media Kit

Contact Me Certificate Request District Internship Program District Map E-mail the Senator Legislative Proposal My Offices Subscribe to the Mailing List

Certificate Request

District Internship Program

District Map

E-mail the Senator

Legislative Proposal

My Offices

Subscribe to the Mailing List

VIDEO: Leader Jones Exposes Chaos at the San Diego Border

More News

ICYMI

View All

Breadcrumb

Aug 6
California Republicans’ Growing Impact on Social Media
Jul 16
Leader Jones Stands on Steps of the Capitol Opposing the Anti-Charter School Bill
Jul 16
AB 84 Charter Schools Press Conference
Jul 15
Leader Jones Demands Accountability on Dangerous Sexually Violent Predator Program

Jun 17
2025
$8-a-gallon gas? Senate Minority Leader Brian W. Jones requests audit of gas price hikes
Jun 9
2025
Nixed bill could have prevented LA unrest, California minority leader says
Jun 8
2025
California lawmaker warns Menendez brothers' case is driving return of bill to release thousands of killers
Jun 3
2025
Ramona nonprofit, resident recognized with Senate District 40 awards