December 5, 2022
Today, Assemblyman Vince Fong (R-Central Valley) was officially sworn in for another term to serve the hard working people of the Central Valley. Continuing his fierce fight for Californians’ way of life, Fong vowed to push back against the Governor’s ill-conceived policies including his flawed call to stifle needed energy production – a failed idea proposed in 1980 under President Jimmy Carter that resulted in higher prices, increased reliance on foreign countries, and long lines at the gas pump.
“Price controls will lead to energy shortages. We have been down this road before. This proposal does not make any sense in economic reality,” said Assemblymember Vince Fong. “To address high energy costs in California, we need more domestic energy production, not less.”
Under Governor Newsom’s reign, the gas tax has increased four times.
To bring immediate relief to drivers, Assemblyman Vince Fong is introducing legislation to suspend the gas tax for a year.
“The people of this state, especially the hard working men and women in the Central Valley deserve a Governor who focuses on our state’s ongoing crises, not making splashy headlines to distract us from the real life consequences of his illogical policies,” Fong said.
“Gas, heating bills and costs of everything have skyrocketed. Families are demanding more affordable and reliable energy supply. We want less taxes, not more.”
The Legislature convened an Extraordinary Session to comply with the Governor’s declaration of a special session to raise taxes on energy production.
In today’s session, the Legislature also swore in newly elected Assemblymembers. Following Assemblyman Vince Fong’s successful election where he ran unopposed, Fong was sworn in to serve the people of Kern and Tulare Counties for a fourth term.
“Representing Central Valley residents is an honor and a privilege,” Fong said.
“I will continue to serve our community and be a strong voice for our way of life, and will never waver to bring common sense, transparency and accountability to Sacramento.”