AB 255 Advanced to Appropriations & AB 1467 Advanced to the Assembly Floor
SACRAMENTO – Assemblymember Juan Alanis secured unanimous support for his fourth public safety focused bill (AB 255), and won unanimous support for the Nevaeh Youth Sports Safety Act (AB 1467). These bills represent Alanis’ 5
th
and 6
th
bills to clear a committee in this legislative session.
AB 255 (Postsecondary Education: Priority Registration for First Responders) passed out of the Assembly Committee on Higher Education this week by a unanimous vote of 11-0. This proposal will require the California State University and California Community Colleges, as well as request the University of California, to offer priority class registration to first responders who are enrolled in a certificate program, or are in the process of obtaining their baccalaureate degree.
“The fact is that there are massive recruiting deficits for critical first responder jobs across the state,” said Assemblymember Juan Alanis. “AB 255 will go a long way in helping close these critical recruiting gaps for some of the most important public service jobs in California.”
AB 1467 (Nevaeh Youth Sports Safety Act) passed out of the Assembly Committee for Arts, Entertainment, Sports & Tourism this week by a unanimous vote of 5-0.
“Last year alone, we had two young individuals pass away in the Central Valley who might have been saved had an AED be readily available,” said Assemblymember Juan Alanis. “One of those kids was named Neveah. She lived in Waterford, CA where I worked as a Stanislaus County Sheriff’s Sergeant.  Nevaeh collapsed at a cheerleading practice and her life may have been saved with access to an AED. I believe we know enough now about what a valuable lifesaving tool AEDs are. Like we already mandate for high school sports, it should be common sense to equip every youth sports team with this tool. The lives of our next generations are priceless.”
AB 255 will be heard in the Assembly Committee on Appropriations later this year and AB 1467 will now go before the full State Assembly for consideration.