SACRAMENTO
– On Wednesday, Assemblymember Ash Kalra (D-San José) was appointed Chair of the new Assembly Select Committee on the Future of Work and Workers by Speaker Anthony Rendon (D-Lakewood).
“I am honored to serve as Chair to the Assembly’s new Select Committee on the Future of Work and Workers and thank Speaker Rendon for this leadership opportunity.
California's workers are battling the worsening effects of climate change, increased income inequality, a lack of affordable housing, and job displacement with technological advancement. We must remain vigilant in addressing these threats to the well-being of workers and ensure that no working-class families are left behind. It is my hope that the Select Committee can highlight the intersectionality of work with such issues as the environment, housing, transportation, and automation, and guide us toward a more inclusive economy for all.”
Assemblymember Kalra has established himself as a leader in helping guide California to preserve and create good jobs, ready the workforce for jobs of the future through lifelong learning, and ensure prosperity for all. He has authored successful legislation to promote workplace health and safety, enhance labor protections, and expand public assistance benefits for workers. In September 2019, Governor Gavin Newsom appointed him to the inaugural Future of Work Commission, where he joined a diverse group of leaders from technology, labor, business, education, and other sectors to help ensure shared growth and success among workers and their families.
The Select Committee will focus on topics such as automation and AI, the green economy, high road employment and job quality, immigration, climate change, employee organizing, and the fissuring of the workplace. Informational hearings will involve a diverse cross-section of stakeholders to bring attention to these topics and generate policy ideas and legislative proposals.
###
Assemblymember Ash Kalra
represents California’s 25th Assembly District, which encompasses the majority of San José, including downtown and open space areas northeast of Santa Clara County. He was first elected in 2016, becoming the first Indian American to serve in the California Legislature in state history, and was re-elected to his fourth term in 2022. Assemblymember Kalra is the Chair of the Committee on Labor and Employment and also serves as a member on the Housing and Community Development, Judiciary, Transportation, and Water, Parks, and Wildlife committees.