SACRAMENTO, CA –
Assemblywoman Sharon Quirk-Silva (D – Fullerton),
Chair of the Assembly Committee on Arts, Entertainment, Sports, and Tourism, strongly supports the recent decision of the Screen Actors Guild – American Federation of Television and Radio Artists (SAG-AFTRA) union as they embark on a strike. Today, she emphasized the urgent need for meaningful changes that address the concerns of actors, writers, and other industry professionals.
“I wholeheartedly stand with the dedicated members of SAG-AFTRA in their fight for fair wages, improved working conditions, and an enhanced quality of life,” said
Assemblywoman Quirk-Silva
. “Our entertainment industry workers are the backbone of California's vibrant cultural landscape, and they deserve to be treated with dignity and respect. As SAG-AFTRA joins the more than 11,000 writers from the Writer's Guild of America (WGA) on the picket lines, I am honored to stand in solidarity with them.”
The strike by SAG-AFTRA underscores the pressing need for changes that address the legitimate concerns shared by actors, writers, and other industry professionals. Beginning on Friday, July 14th, SAG-AFTRA is fighting for fair compensation that considers inflation, including pension and health benefits, along with improved working conditions, and safeguards to protect actors' compensation when artificial intelligence is trained on their performances. The union's demands are aligned with those of the WGA, who have been on strike since May, emphasizing higher compensation and residuals for streaming shows, regulations ensuring adequate staffing for television shows, and fair compensation throughout the entire production process. Both SAG-AFTRA and the WGA share significant concerns about the implications of artificial intelligence on scriptwriting.
“Addressing the well-founded concerns of the unions is vital to ensure the well-being and security of the industry's workforce,” continued
Assemblywoman Quirk-Silva
. “We must recognize the vital role played by actors and other entertainment industry workers in California's thriving entertainment sector. Their talent and hard work significantly contribute to our state's economic and cultural landscape. It is imperative that their voices be heard and their rights be protected in the face of rising costs and technological advancements.”
Assemblywoman Quirk-Silva remains committed to ensuring that California's entertainment industry remains a prosperous and inclusive environment for all its workers, and
will continue to actively engage with industry stakeholders and colleagues to advocate for fair working conditions and the preservation of workers' rights.
Assemblywoman Sharon Quirk-Silva represents the 67th Assembly District, which includes the Orange County communities of Anaheim, Buena Park, Cypress, Fullerton, and La Palma, as well as the Los Angeles County communities of Artesia
,
Cerritos, and Hawaiian Gardens.