SACRAMENTO, CA
—Governor Newsom has signed AB 2876, Assemblymember Marc Berman’s (D-Menlo Park) legislation to integrate Artificial Intelligence (AI) literacy into the core curriculum for all K-12 students in California. AB 2876 responds to the rapid proliferation of AI in nearly every aspect of young people’s lives, as well as the impact AI will have on their futures.
“AI has the potential to positively impact the way we live, but only if we know how to use it, and use it responsibly,”
said Assemblymember Marc Berman.
“Children and young people today must navigate a world—and job market—transformed by fast-moving AI technology. We have a responsibility to ensure that all students, no matter their future profession, understand basic AI principles and applications, that they have the skills to recognize when AI is employed, and are aware of AI’s implications, limitations, and ethical considerations. This new law will equip all California students with the skills and training they need to be safe, ethical, and successful users of AI as it becomes more mainstream.”
“The importance of what AB 2876 will accomplish cannot be overstated.  If California is to successfully harness the tremendous promise AI offers, it is vital that we place greater emphasis and resources on preparing students with the foundational knowledge and skills necessary to identify, understand, and successfully utilize all kinds of AI that they may encounter in their future workplaces.   Just like reading, writing, and arithmetic, digital literacy and AI literacy are basic skills that students need to develop if they are to succeed in the modern world,”
said Ben Golombek, Chief of Staff for Policy, CalChamber.
AB 2876 directs the Instructional Quality Commission (IQC) to incorporate AI literacy content into the mathematics, science, and history-social science curriculum frameworks and instructional materials at their next revision. The bill will also add media literacy to the English language arts/English language development, science, mathematics, and history-social science instructional materials when the materials are next revised.
AI literacy is defined as the knowledge, skills, and attitudes associated with how artificial intelligence works, including its principles, concepts, and applications, as well as how to use artificial intelligence, including its limitations, implications, and ethical considerations.
Studies have shown that early exposure to technology concepts can significantly influence students’ career paths and preparedness for the future. According to the 2023 AI Index report by the Stanford Institute for Human Centered Artificial Intelligence, “the demand for AI-related professional skills is increasing across virtually every American industrial sector.” The report goes on to find, “AI systems are increasingly deployed in the real world. However, there often exists a disparity between the individuals who develop AI and those who use AI.”
According to a May 2023 special report in Education Week, experts argue “AI literacy is something that every student needs exposure to—not just those who are planning on a career in computer science” as “K-12 students have grown up in a world where artificial intelligence informs what their families buy at the grocery store, how scientists track the spread of diseases, and even how the photo filters work on their favorite social media apps.”