SACRAMENTO, CA
— On Monday, December 2, 2024, the California State Legislature welcomed its newest legislators in a historic swearing-in ceremony at the State Capitol. This year marks a groundbreaking milestone, a record number of women will serve in the California State Legislature, underscoring the state’s leadership in championing gender equity in representation.
Assembly Majority Leader Cecilia Aguiar-Curry (D-Winters), Chair of the California Legislative Women’s Caucus, celebrated this achievement, calling it a turning point for California’s commitment to a government that reflects the diversity of its people.
“As we welcome new voices in the legislature, I’m honored to celebrate the historic number of women who took their oath of office this year,” said Assembly Majority Leader Cecilia Aguiar-Curry. “Our collective leadership will get things done on affordable housing, access to healthcare, climate, childcare, artificial intelligence, and economic opportunity.”
This two-year legislative session includes 38 women in the 80-member State Assembly and 21 women in the 40-member State Senate, in total, 59 of the legislature’s 120 seats. The California Legislative Women’s Caucus, which advocates for policies promoting equity, economic opportunity, and justice for all Californians, sees this achievement as a testament to the growing momentum of women’s leadership across the state.
“I am honored to serve in the California State Senate, the first house of the legislature to reach gender parity with 21 women senators,” said Senator Monique Limón (D-Santa Barbara), Vice Chair of the Legislative Women’s Caucus. “With this historic achievement, we advance our commitment to gender and pay equity while working to close the gap in economic opportunities for women. Our growing caucus and leadership brings more ideas and perspectives to advance our California-for-All agenda.”
The achievement also highlights the increasing representation of women of color in the legislature.
“Not only does this milestone reflect a record number of women serving, but it also highlights the growing presence of women of color, including African American women, in the Legislature,” said Assemblywoman Lori D. Wilson (D-Suisun City). “When our government reflects the diversity of its people, we create policies that better serve all Californians. I am proud to be part of this moment and to continue breaking barriers for future generations.”
Assemblymember Blanca Rubio (D-Baldwin Park) echoed the sentiment: “It’s exciting to witness a clear shift in the status and priority that voters and the public have in female leadership in our state. I hope our growing representation will continue encouraging and inspiring young girls and women to pursue opportunities that were once limited or unavailable.”
Assemblymember Buffy Wicks (D-Oakland) emphasized the broader implications of the achievement: “Today’s ceremony is a testament to the progress we’ve made in creating a legislature that truly reflects the people of California. As the most diverse legislative body in America, and with a record number of women now serving, we’re bringing bold, diverse perspectives, and lived experiences to tackle the challenges that matter most—like housing, healthcare, climate, childcare, and economic equity. This is a moment for transformational leadership, and together we’re proving that when women lead, we all move forward.”
Senate Majority Leader Lena Gonzalez (D-Long Beach) highlighted the significance for future generations: “Reaching this milestone in gender equity offers a powerful example for young women and girls everywhere. Together, we are paving the way for a more inclusive and equitable tomorrow in which women continue to break barriers and shape policies that impact our communities' healthcare, education, the economy, equity, and more. Congratulations to all my new and returning colleagues in the legislature. What a historical moment to be a part of as we head into the new year!”
Reflecting the passion and determination behind this achievement, Senator Caroline Menjivar (D-San Fernando Valley) declared: “This year a historic number of badass women legislators will be confronting the real issues Californians face today. Let’s keep the momentum going and get the majority in the legislature!”
Assembly Majority Leader Aguiar-Curry closed with a vision for the future: “California continues to lead the nation in advancing gender equity, proving that when women lead, our state prospers. Gender-diverse legislatures are shown to perform better when more diverse points of view are included. This record-breaking representation means more perspectives and solutions that meet the needs of communities and families across our state.”
The Legislative Women’s Caucus congratulates all newly elected and returning legislators, and looks forward to working together to champion bold and inclusive policies to meet the needs of all Californians.
###
The
California Legislative Women's Caucus
is a bipartisan group of state legislators dedicated to advancing gender equity and improving the lives of women, children, and families. Founded in 1985, the Women’s Legislative Caucus has been a powerful force for championing legislation that ensures equality and opportunity for all Californians.