SACRAMENTO, CA—
Assemblymember Rick Chavez Zbur (D-Hollywood) announced today his gratitude and commendation for Governor Gavin Newsom’s decision to convene a special session of the Legislature to bolster the state’s legal defenses and protect California values, including fundamental civil rights, reproductive freedom, climate action, immigrant families, and more.
“California has always been a place where values like compassion, fairness, and justice aren’t just words—they are our guiding principles,” said
Assemblymember Zbur
. “I thank Governor Newsom for calling this special session to reaffirm California’s commitment to these values. This is a critical moment in our nation’s history for us to lead by example and to stand as a beacon of hope for communities across the country seeking dignity and opportunity.
“It is our duty to protect our most vulnerable by upholding the rule of law and championing the principles that make California exceptional. In times like these, we must lead the way, showing the nation that a commitment to justice and inclusion strengthens us all. But it is also critical that we seek to understand all perspectives, recognizing that solving our state and nation’s problems will require bringing everyone together. Only by listening can we find common ground and solve our most pressing challenges. By standing together, we can ensure California remains a place where every individual and family has the opportunity to thrive.”
Governor Gavin Newsom announced his intent to convene a Special Session of the Legislature in
a proclamation released today
to prepare California’s defenses against an incoming federal administration that has threatened the state on multiple fronts, and includes an agenda that could erode essential freedoms and individual rights, including women’s rights and LGBTQ+ rights. The special session will begin December 2, when the Legislature convenes.
###
Assemblymember Rick Chavez Zbur serves as the Democratic Caucus Chair for the California State Assembly and represents the 51st Assembly District, which includes Universal City, Hollywood, Hancock Park, West Hollywood, Beverly Hills, Westwood, West Los Angeles, Santa Monica, and other portions of Los Angeles.