SACRAMENTO –
Today, on the first day of the California legislative session, Assemblymember Mia Bonta (D-Oakland), Chair of the Assembly Health Committee, announced a package of bills reflecting the Assemblymember’s continued push to improve women’s health in the state.
“Despite recent progress, it is clear there is still more to do to protect reproductive and maternal health in the state, particularly for our most vulnerable populations, including Black, Latino, Indigenous, LGBTQ+, and low-income communities who are facing disproportionately worse health outcomes. I am proud to introduce this package on the first day of the legislative session to ensure California continues its robust leadership in protecting our residents' ability to access care and improving health outcomes for all,”
said Assemblymember Mia Bonta.
The bills introduced today are:
AB 40 - THE PROTECTING PREGNANT PATIENTS ACT
AB 40, the Protecting Pregnant Patients Act, would clarify in California state statute that abortion care is an emergency service, ensuring that no one in California would be turned away from care when they need it most.
“I’m introducing the Protecting Pregnant Patients Act because no one facing an emotional, vulnerable, and potentially life-threatening decision should be denied care, told to go home, or forced to drive to the next hospital,”
said Assemblymember Mia Bonta.
“Abortion is healthcare, including emergency care, and this bill makes clear California treats it as such.”
“Everyone experiencing a health emergency has the right to receive stabilizing care, including abortion,”
said Onyemma Obiekea, Policy Director, Black Women for Wellness Action Project.
“As we learn about devastating story after story of women in abortion ban states who have died because they did not receive the emergency abortion care that they needed, we in California must realize that our state is not immune from such tragedies. When a hospital skirts its duty to provide responsive emergency care, including abortion, it is tantamount to the abortion bans that have caused the untimely and preventable deaths of women and pregnant people across the country. This not only denies pregnant people the right to bodily autonomy, it exacerbates the maternal mortality crisis in our state which disproportionately impacts Black women and birthing people. BWWAP is proud to support this important legislation that clarifies the law and affords our communities tangible access to the rights guaranteed to all Californians.”
“Hospitals in California have a duty to provide emergency care to anyone coming through their doors who urgently needs to be stabilized to avoid death,”
said Ronald Coleman Baeza, Managing Director of Policy with the California Pan-Ethnic Health Network.
“No hospital has a right to discriminate against patients based on the type of care they need, and AB 40 makes it clear that reproductive health services, including abortion, must be provided when needed to stabilize a patient. Long standing maternal disparities impacting black women and other communities of color will only worsen if hospitals continue to flagrantly disregard our state’s laws.”
AB 55 - BIRTH CENTER LICENSURE STREAMLINING
AB 55 would tackle the worrying trend of California’s birth centers closing. The state of over 38 million people is down to a mere five licensed birth centers. Midwives and nurses at the shuttered and remaining facilities have pointed to overly burdensome and extraneous licensure requirements as a significant factor causing these centers to close.
“California continues to struggle to address concerning trends in maternal health. Even more worrisome is that licensed birth centers, which have been found to improve newborn and maternal health outcomes, have continued to close across the state,”
said Assemblymember Mia Bonta.
“Eliminating requirements that are only driving up prices for providers and are irrelevant to patient safety is a much-needed step to ensure our remaining birth centers can stay afloat and lay the groundwork for more facilities to open. This bill is particularly important for combatting the worsening maternal health trends under our current system that are disproportionately impacting Black and Indigenous pregnant patients and could be better addressed by accessible culturally concordant care.”
Alternative Birth Centers have
been found
to improve newborn birth rates, decrease the rate of cesarean birth, promote successful breastfeeding, save money, and even decrease racial health disparities.
“The closure of maternity and labor wards throughout the State has created a crisis in access to maternity care that has disproportionately impacted California's low-income, Black, Latine, Indigenous, and rural communities,”
said Sandra Poole, Health Policy Advocate at the Western Center on Law & Poverty.
"AB 55 increases access to birth centers, which provide a safe alternative and excellent outcomes for birthing people and infants. As a proud co-sponsor of AB 55 Western Center on Law and Poverty applauds Assemblymember Bonta's commitment to addressing the crisis in maternity care access for at-risk communities."
“California’s maternity and reproductive health care crisis demands urgent action. Freestanding birth centers provide high quality, midwifery-led care for families and can expand access in maternity care shortage areas. Yet, onerous licensing requirements, that don't improve safety, are forcing them to close. This legislation is essential to remove barriers, ensure equitable care, and address the need for midwife-led care. Californian families deserve better,"
said Amita Graham, CA Nurse Midwives Association President
“As we face a distressing maternal mortality and morbidity crisis in California, we are witnessing a disturbing uptick in maternity ward closures across our state that is leaving our communities without access to perinatal care,”
said Onyemma Obiekea, Policy Director, Black Women for Wellness Action Project.
“These closures have resulted in increased barriers to care, exacerbating the crisis and inequities at hand. Birth centers offer quality perinatal healthcare and are equipped to stand in the care gaps left by shuttered maternity wards, but burdensome licensing requirements render their services out of reach for groups most impacted by adverse maternal and infant health outcomes. This critical legislation works to ensure that our communities have access to the quality, dignified perinatal health care that we deserve.”
AB 50 - OVER-THE-COUNTER BIRTH CONTROL EQUITY
AB 50, will ensure that Medi-Cal recipients will be able to access over-the-counter birth control without having to navigate many of the same barriers they would to get a prescription.
“Over-the-counter birth control is ensuring contraceptives are readily available to more people than ever. We should not stifle this progress by leaving Medi-Cal recipients behind and making low-income communities have to take more steps than their peers on private insurance to access medication,”
said Assemblymember Mia Bonta.
“AB 50 will ensure equity and fairness by removing these hoops for those on Medi-Cal.”
“If enacted, this bill will advance health equity by making it easier for people, including those enrolled in Medi-Cal, to access over-the-counter contraceptives,”
said Christina Piecora, Senior Policy Analyst at the National Health Law Program.
“The National Health Law Program is proud to join our partners Essential Access Health and Birth Control Pharmacist in co-sponsoring this important bill removing burdensome and unnecessary self-screening and assessment protocols for pharmacists furnishing over-the-counter contraceptives. We commend Assemblymember Bonta for introducing this bill and stand ready to work with her in taking the next big step toward contraceptive equity in the state.”
“California is a leader in enacting comprehensive and inclusive contraceptive coverage requirements, but work remains to guarantee equitable access to the full range of birth control methods for all Californians,”
said
Amy Moy, Co-CEO of Essential Access Health
. “Action is needed to ensure that Medi-Cal enrollees have the same contraceptive access as people with private health insurance. AB 50 will close a loophole to allow people with Medi-Cal coverage to get over-the-counter methods, including the birth control pill Opill, without a prescription or out-of-pocket costs. As we face an incoming Administration and Congress hostile to reproductive freedom, it’s imperative and time-sensitive for the state to take every step possible to create a more just and equitable health care system for all Californians. We thank Assemblymember Bonta for being a healthy equity champion and for her leadership on this important measure.”
“California continues to lead the way by recognizing pharmacies and pharmacists as an essential access point for reproductive health services and products. With this simple policy change, pharmacists will be able to help people use their health insurance to obtain over-the-counter birth control at no cost. This legislation will enable Californians to access safe and effective medications to maintain their health and achieve their life goals,”
said Sally Rafie, Birth Control Pharmacist Founder.
“I’m thankful for the support these bills have already gotten from my constituents, grassroots organizations, and local leaders and I look forward to working with my colleagues in the legislature to get these crucial pieces of legislation signed into law,”
stated Assemblymember Mia Bonta.
###
Assemblymember Mia Bonta
represents California’s 18
th
Assembly District encompassing the East Bay including Oakland, Alameda, and Emeryville. She also chairs the Assembly Health Committee.