SACRAMENTO
— Assemblymember Patel (D-San Diego County) and the bill’s sponsors—California School Library Association—celebrate the unanimous passage of AB 279 out of the Assembly Education Committee. This legislation directs the Instructional Quality Commission to recommend updated Model School Library Standards (MSLS) and requires their adoption by July 1, 2028. These standards have not been revised since they were approved in 2010, despite rapid changes in technology and student learning needs, thus necessitating updates to stay relevant to an ever-changing world and technological landscape.
Under the current standards, adopted more than a decade ago, digital tools and technologies such as smartphones, social media platforms, and artificial intelligence are not included in the curriculum. This gap leaves educators and administrators without clear guidance on addressing critical issues like online safety, media literacy, disinformation, and AI literacy—challenges that significantly affect students’ academic success, career success, and critical thinking to navigate the digital world.
“Schools face a vastly different information landscape than they did when these standards were last updated,” said Assemblymember Patel. “AB 279 ensures California’s school library programs stay on pace with emerging technologies and empower students to become informed, critical users and navigators of information and technology—skills that are now more important than ever.”
Updating the MSLS to reflect current technological and information changes reinforces the vital role of school libraries and teacher librarians in promoting a positive school climate, stronger student connections, and media literacy.
The California State Parent Teacher Association, supporters of AB 279, said, “Library standards are essential for ensuring that libraries can effectively meet the diverse needs of our students by offering equitable access to a wide variety of information. Passage of AB 279 will establish a systematic approach to periodically updating school library standards to ensure that our school libraries adapt to technological advancements and the ever-changing needs of our students.”