SACRAMENTO –
Assemblymember Buffy Wicks (D-Oakland) announced a partnership with the California State Library to host the California Civic Media Fund, part of a first-in-the-nation agreement with media outlets, major tech companies and philanthropy to support community news across the state.
The creation of the fund is part of an ongoing, five-year effort to improve the information available to Californians about their communities and how they can help shape public policy.
“Sustaining local journalism will take all of us — government, philanthropy, and the tech sector — stepping up together,” said
Assemblymember Buffy Wicks
. “The Civic Media Fund is a groundbreaking partnership that brings these forces together to confront the crisis facing local news. By investing in trusted, community-based journalism, we’re strengthening civic engagement and protecting the foundation of our democracy.”
The State Library will oversee the distribution of public dollars aimed at bolstering local news coverage. The new fund is part of a joint effort to bring together public, private and philanthropic support for organizations across California to address challenges that have impacted news coverage across the state.
“There’s a significant public benefit in empowering Californians with the information they need to make smart decisions about their families and the future of their communities and their state,” said
Greg Lucas, California’s state librarian
. “The State Library – and California’s 1,127 local libraries – connect Californians with the information they need to succeed and thrive, so it’s exciting to help increase the amount of trusted information available to all of us.”
In addition to the State’s seed money administered by the Library, the fund will receive money from private donors. An advisory board to the Civic Media Fund, selected by the state, will provide recommendations for allocating both the public and private dollars to sustain and enhance community news coverage in California.
Alphabet will contribute at least $10 million to the private fund in the first year, and has committed to providing additional matching dollars if more public, private or philanthropic money is raised.
In addition, the company will continue its support of California newsrooms through the Google News Initiative and other programming, which offers more than $10 million in annual support to media outlets across the state.
"We appreciate the leadership of Governor Newsom and Assemblymember Wicks in fulfilling the framework established last year,” said
Jaffer Zaidi, Vice President, Global News Partnerships at Alphabet
. “We’re committed to its success, and based on the agreement, we’re pleased to match the State of California's initial contribution to the Civic Media Fund.”
Investments by the Civic Media Fund will prioritize strengthening community news coverage. To help guide the disbursement of these funds, the State Library will coordinate regional assessments of the current community news and information landscape across California. Public funding will also be used to develop tools that help reporters and other content creators better access information and help make their government more transparent and responsive.
*What Others Are Saying*
“We see this commitment as a crucial first step. While the Governor and Legislature must confront a very real challenge in closing a sizable budget deficit, I deeply appreciate the state’s initial investment and Assemblymember Wicks’ continued leadership. This moment calls for bold thinking to protect one of the foundational pillars of our democracy — independent, locally owned journalism. A well-informed public can hold power to account, engage with their government, and shape the rules that govern their lives. Independent news media is not a luxury; it’s a necessity.” –
Regina Wilson, Executive Director of California Black Media.
“We’re grateful to Assemblymember Wicks and other California leaders for their vision in launching this initiative to strengthen local journalism across California.  OpenAI appreciates the opportunity to collaborate on this important project.  A strong press is essential to a healthy democracy and this effort extends our commitment to help news organizations harness AI in ways that deliver real-world benefits for Californians.
”-- Chris Lehane, Vice President of Global Affairs, OpenAI
“
California Press Forward, made up of the Inland Empire Journalism Hub + Fund, James B. McClatchy Foundation (JBMF), Silicon Valley Community Foundation and other journalism entities across the state appreciates this initial state investment as a vital step toward supporting local news in California’s diverse communities. In places like California's Central Valley and the Inland Empire where both news and philanthropic deserts exist, this investment is a necessary boost to the preservation of local journalism in multiracial and multilingual communities. We are grateful to Assemblymember Wicks and Governor Newsom for recognizing the critical importance of safeguarding local news and our democracy amid the current challenging state budget climate. As part of the national Press Forward initiative, California Press Forward views this as an important beginning—an opportunity to amplify successful collaborative efforts across the state. This initiative will strengthen our collective ability to leverage further investments in local news, ensuring that all Californians have access to vital, trusted information.”
– California Press Forward
“California, alongside New Jersey, is pioneering a model of public-private support for journalism innovation and supporting the information needs of communities. I look forward to seeing how these funds can help build a new future for journalism, rather than trying to protect its past.” –
Jeff Jarvis, Emeritus Professor of Journalism Innovation at the City University of New York’s Newmark Graduate School of Journalism.
# # #