What You Need to Know:
Californians are repeatedly hit with utility rate increases, often without a clear explanation, leaving many consumers frustrated and struggling. This issue impacts everyone, but it’s especially hard on vulnerable communities. With the rising cost of living, these frequent rate hikes only worsen the affordability crisis.
Sacramento, CA-
Today, the California State Assembly passed AB 13, authored by Assemblymember Rhodesia Ransom (D-Tracy), to crack down on unchecked utility rate hikes and demand greater accountability from the California Public Utilities Commission (CPUC).
This comes as utility bills continue to climb for California families- while PG&E reported $2.47 billion in profits in 2024 alone, including $86 million paid out to shareholders, according to the San Francisco Chronicle. Just this past year, the California Public Utilities Commission (CPUC) approved six rate increases for PG&E customers.
AB 13 takes action by creating a new process for how the CPUC reviews and approves rate increases and communicates with the Legislature. The bill requires CPUC commissioners to be appointed based on geographic districts to ensure broader representation. It adds a commissioner with a background in public advocacy or public interest law, strengthens transparency by mandating annual reports to the Legislature on rate affordability and pending decisions, and requires the CPUC to disclose delays in rate-setting cases. It also requires the CPUC to notify the Legislature within 15 days of finalizing any rate-setting decision.
“The CPUC has the authority and responsibility to oversee rate setting for the utilities that Californians rely on. The work of PUC commissioners carries the weight of law, yet they have no accountability to the public,” said Assemblymember Rhodesia Ransom. “As legislators, we have the responsibility to represent and answer to constituents. And if we want to be more responsive to our community, we have to make substantive changes to the PUC.”
“AB 13 is a powerful first step toward restoring real accountability at the CPUC. By requiring prompt reporting on major decisions like rate hikes, this bill gives the Legislature—and the public—the tools they need to push for transparency and fairness,” said Loretta Lynch, former President of the California Public Utilities Commission. “I commend Assemblymember Ransom for leading this essential reform.”
AB 13 is also formally supported by the
School Energy Coalition, San Diego Gas and Electric Company, and San Joaquin County.
AB 13 now heads to the Senate.