SACRAMENTO, CA –
Today,
Democratic Caucus Chair and Assemblymember Rick Chavez Zbur (D-Hollywood)
issued the following statement in response to the killing of two Israeli diplomatic staffers outside the Capital Jewish Museum in Washington, D.C.:
"I am horrified and heartbroken by the tragic murders of Yaron Lischinsky and Sarah Milgrim, Israeli diplomatic staffers who were just 30 and 26 years old. According to Israel's ambassador to the U.S., Yaron had just bought an engagement ring this week and planned to propose to Sarah. They were murdered outside an American Jewish Committee event held at the Capital Jewish Museum in Washington, D.C. The suspect in custody was reportedly heard shouting 'Free Palestine' at the time of the shooting.
"When I served as Executive Director of Equality California, I always spoke forcefully against discrimination and hate directed at any community—and I continue to do so in the Legislature. What we're seeing today—alarming levels of antisemitism, often couched in anti-Zionism—requires immense focus and attention to protect Jewish communities and families. It requires all of us to speak with one voice against hate and violence, like the heinous hate crime committed yesterday.
"Violence against Jewish people is on the rise. While Jewish people make up approximately 3% of California's population, anti-Jewish hate crimes account for over 73% of all hate crimes motivated by religious bias reported in California. In addition, there has been a massive 893% increase in antisemitic hate crimes in the United States over the past 10 years, and we've seen a continued increase since the October 7 Massacre. What we are seeing is the result of antisemitic rhetoric that is allowed to flourish, unchecked and even exalted, on social media, in public discourse, and in our schools.
"My district, which is home to one of the largest Jewish communities in the United States, has not been immune to a shocking spate of antisemitic vandalism, violent protests, and hate-motivated crimes. Not a week goes by when I don't hear from my constituents about the hostile climate Jewish students and families are experiencing in our K-12 schools and communities. As a member of the California Legislative Jewish Caucus, I continue to work diligently with my colleagues to ensure Jewish community members have the resources needed to protect their families. This remains our top priority. Make no mistake—we will see this type of violence increase if we do nothing.
"The livestreamed terror we witnessed on October 7, 2023—the brutal assaults, murders, and kidnappings—will never be forgotten; and the consequences—the displacement, suffering, and deaths of so many innocent Palestinian civilians have been devastating. The world must come together to support a lasting and just peace—one that ensures safety, security, and dignity for both Israelis and Palestinians. We all want this war and conflict to end. However, we must be unequivocal in our condemnation of these murders and make clear that political violence is never acceptable.
"May the memories of Yaron Lischinsky and Sarah Milgrim be a blessing."
Assemblymember Rick Chavez Zbur serves as the Democratic Caucus Chair for the California State Assembly and represents the 51st Assembly District, which includes Universal City, Hollywood, Hancock Park, West Hollywood, Beverly Hills, Westwood, West Los Angeles, Santa Monica, and other portions of Los Angeles.
CONTACT:
Vienna Montague, (916) 319-2051,
Vienna.Montague@asm.ca.gov