(Sacramento, CA) - Assemblymember Harabedian (D-Pasadena)
introduced AB 512 to shorten the timeline for health treatment authorization decisions by health plans from five business days to 48 hours for standard requests and from 72 hours to 24 hours for urgent requests. The bill ensures that medical decisions are made quickly, reducing delays in patient care and improving access to timely, necessary healthcare services.
“Doctors know what their patients need to thrive. Californians deserve a healthcare system that responds with fairness, speed, and compassion when their health is at risk. Especially with the Eaton Fire endangering the immediate and long-term health of my constituents, access to timely care has never been more critical. This bill ensures that medical decisions aren’t stalled by unnecessary red tape, allowing medical personnel to focus on what matters—saving lives.”
said Assemblymember John Harabedian (D-Pasadena)
.
The legislation addresses delays in patient care caused by slow prior authorization processes, where insurance companies must approve certain medical services before treatment can begin. Currently, insurers can take up to five business days for standard requests and 72 hours for urgent cases, creating unnecessary barriers to timely care. This delay can worsen health conditions, increase patient stress, and, in urgent situations such as natural disasters and other emergencies, pose serious risks to health outcomes. This leaves vulnerable patients at the mercy of administrative red tape. AB 512 closes that gap by mandating quicker decisions—within 48 hours for standard requests and 24 hours for urgent ones—ensuring patients receive the care they need without harmful delays.
“When it comes to receiving timely medical care, even seconds can count,” said California Medical Association President Shannon Udovic-Constant, M.D. “Assemblymember Harabedian's AB 512 will reduce prior authorization delays by setting clear timelines for review and empower physicians to act quickly so that patients aren’t left waiting for essential care.”
This bill will be heard in the Assembly policy committee during the spring.
###