Sacramento, CA – Legislation authored by Assemblymember Diane Papan to improve the review of local housing elements as part of the Regional Housing Needs Allocation (RHNA) process overseen by the California Department of Housing and Community Development (HCD) was approved by the California State Assembly. Assembly Bill 650 will address the challenges faced by local jurisdictions and the HCD in obtaining timely certification of housing elements while supporting the effort to meet state housing goals.
"AB 650 takes important steps to improve clarity and coordination between local governments and the state," said Assemblymember Diane Papan. "By starting the RHNA process earlier, requiring consistent feedback from HCD, and providing relief to good-faith actors awaiting certification, this bill ensures that cities are better positioned to meet California's urgent housing needs."
The RHNA process requires local jurisdictions to submit detailed housing plans, known as housing elements, to HCD for review and certification. Without certification, cities risk losing access to state funding for infrastructure and affordable housing and face potential development penalties such as the builder's remedy.
Under AB 650, the RHNA process will begin six months earlier, giving municipalities more time to plan and engage with HCD. The legislation also mandates that HCD provide clear and actionable guidance to local governments to avoid confusion.
Currently, over 100 jurisdictions across California — including several local jurisdictions in San Mateo County — remain in limbo, awaiting certification of their housing elements. These delays have hindered development projects, jeopardize affordable housing initiatives and put cities at risk of losing crucial state funding for infrastructure improvements.
"Many cities – with some exceptions -- including those in San Mateo County, have worked diligently to develop compliant housing elements but have faced repeated delays and changing guidance from HCD," said Assemblymember Papan. "AB 650 protects these good-faith actors from onerous penalties while they await certification."
"This bill is about accountability and fairness," said Assemblymember Papan. "By improving coordination and ensuring timely feedback, AB 650 will help hold accountable all parties for their respective roles in developing proactive housing elements that will yield real results.”
The bill will be heard in the State Senate in the coming weeks.