Senator Dave Cortese (D-San Jose) released the following statement on the Budget Act of 2023 and trailer bills to implement the budget, which was passed by the Legislature on Tuesday:

“I strongly support the Budget Act of 2023, as it will benefit every resident in Santa Clara County. This budget is a smart and equitable plan that cautiously navigates an uncertain economy. It protects the progress that California has made in supporting and creating economic opportunity for the state’s most vulnerable people. This budget also invests in young people and their future, with historic investment in childcare, public schools, and higher education.”

The Budget Act of 2023:

Fully protects the progress of recent years with no ongoing cuts to core programs, as well as no new tax increases on Californians.

Continues planned program increases for key areas, including: schools, higher education, Medi-Cal access expansion, SSI and CalWORKs grants.

Continues our commitment to Responsible Budgeting by building total reserves to $37.8 billion – the highest in history – to help protect future budgets during these times of economic uncertainty.

The following investments from the 2023-24 state budget will directly benefit people in Senate District 15:

Protecting Transit and Funding BART to Downtown San Jose

The 2023-24 budget restores the multi-year $4 billion in the Transit and Intercity Rail Capitol Program and adds $1.1 billion for transit operators like Bay Area Rapid Transit (BART) and Valley Transportation Agency (VTA) to avoid drastic cuts to transit service. Transit agencies can either direct these funds toward operations or for capital projects like the long-planned extension of BART through Silicon Valley.

“The Silicon Valley BART extension project will not only alleviate Bay Area traffic, but it will also help California meet its climate change goals and provide a vital transportation option for anyone seeking education, employment, and recreation across the Bay Area,” said Senator Cortese.

Guaranteed Basic Income Pilot Program for Unhoused High School Students

The state budget provides $3 million to launch a guaranteed income program in Santa Clara County for 50 homeless students exiting high school. This program will help recipients transition into college or a good-paying job by providing a monthly stipend of $1,200 and various lines of support including financial mentors and peer mentors. The program is modeled after a successful 2020 guaranteed income program spearheaded by Senator Cortese that provided a monthly stipends for young people leaving foster care to help them transition into college or career. The pilot program is also the result of leadership by Santa Clara County Board President and District 4 Supervisor Susan Ellenberg, who has been a champion for guaranteed income programs and has served as a primary architect of this countywide program.

“The Guaranteed Basic Income Pilot Program for Unhoused High School Students invests in homeless students in Santa Clara County as they seek out a promising college and career,” said Senator Cortese (D-San Jose). “My bill, SB 333, would scale this type of program statewide. We need to stop the cycle of homelessness by supporting young people at a crucial time when they embark on a professional path. I want to thank Santa Clara County Supervisor Susan Ellenberg for moving this program forward as a district pilot, ensuring that students across Santa Clara County will receive this vital support.”

“The Guaranteed Basic Income Pilot Program for Unhoused High School Students experiencing homelessness will help students across the County who are most in need of support,” said Santa Clara County Board President and District 4 Supervisor Susan Ellenberg . “Guaranteed income is a vital tool to achieve economic, racial, and gender equity. By providing disadvantaged young adults with the means for long-term success, we can create fresh avenues for self-determination, empowerment, and the pursuit of personal goals that may otherwise be out of reach.”

The Tech Interactive Field Trip Program Incorporating the Silicon Valley Kid’s Climate Club

The state budget provides $3 million to fund field trips to The Tech Interactive, a Silicon Valley museum promoting hands-on STEM education with exhibits in areas like artificial intelligence, robotics, digital art, and environmental science. Around 100,000 students visit The Tech on field trips each year, and over half of them come through the Title I Field Trip Scholarship Fund for students in under-resourced communities. The Field Trip program will also include teachings from the "Silicon Valley Kids Climate Club," lessons and resources for teaching climate change created by Senator Cortese and scientific experts.

“The Tech Interactive Field Trip Program brings youth from all over Silicon Valley, including underserved communities, to participate in the wonders of science, technology, engineering, and math,” said Senator Cortese . “The program will also fund and incorporate concepts from the Silicon Valley Kids Climate Club, a program I started that teaches students in 2 nd through 8 th grade about environmental stewardship through learning activities and pledges. Climate change will be a defining feature of every young person’s life. We need to uplift every program that empowers youth to make fundamental changes to protect the world they will inherit.”

College of Adaptive Arts - Investing in Higher Education Opportunities

The budget provides $2.2 million to College of Adaptive Arts (CAA), which offers college-level education for adults with Intellectual and Developmental Disabilities, to expand its model to more college campuses. CAA's goal is to provide an equal college experience for individuals with disabilities that include autism, Down syndrome, and cerebral palsy, by teaching arts, wellness, and vocational skills.

“The investment in College of the Adaptive Arts will help people with disabilities feel supported as they secure work that benefits their communities while building confidence,” said Senator Cortese . “The College of the Adaptive Arts is an outstanding model created right here in Santa Clara County. Let’s expand this program worldwide!”

Silicon Valley African American Cultural Center

The budget provides $3 million for the African American Cultural Center, a Silicon Valley community initiative to build the Silicon Valley African American Signature Project, a mixed-use development that includes affordable housing, a health clinic, a performing arts theater, a museum, athletic facilities, and retail spaces. The project’s total cost is estimated to be $200 million.

“The African American Cultural Center will act as a central gathering place for people to celebrate the achievements of African Americans,” said Senator Cortese . “It will provide affordable housing, a health clinic, and venues for sports and the arts. I’m happy to support this center in bringing together people from different backgrounds and fostering a sense of unity and appreciation.”

Office Information

Capitol Office

1021 O Street Suite 7520 Sacramento, CA 95814

Phone: (916) 651-4015 Fax: (916) 651-4915

San Jose Office

1155 Meridian Avenue Suite 100 San Jose, CA 95125

Phone: (408) 723-4154 Fax: (408) 723-4159

California State Senate | Democratic Caucus © 2025 | Privacy Policy | Accessibility Statement

Senator Cortese’s Statement on the Budget Act of 2023