For Immediate Release

Contact: Elisa Rivera

(559) 264-3070 Elisa.Rivera@sen.ca.gov

Senator Anna M. Caballero Statement on Central Valley Direct Capture Hub Awards

Sacramento - Senator Anna M. Caballero (D-Merced) issued the following statement:

“ Direct Air Capture offers a solution to remove and permanently store atmospheric carbon dioxide (CO 2 ) using low carbon emissions energy and is a necessary tool to meet California’s ambitious climate, clean air goals and plans to phase out fossil fuels. That is why I am excited to share that the Central Valley will benefit from two of the four Direct Capture Hub Awards issued to California from the U.S Department of Energy.

This award means quality, union jobs in construction and low carbon technologies for our regional workforce. Such high road job opportunities will allow California to build upon our current emission reduction strategies and reach our climate change goals with greater determination. With its location in the Central Valley, the Direct Air Capture Hub will boost our local economy and launch the next phase of carbon reduction in California and the nation. I look forward to supporting its implementation and working to ensure that we use this opportunity to its upmost potential.

Education, trust and community oversight are critical components of the DAC hub design. Input from residents in the San Joaquin Valley will help build the framework for how we grow emission reduction projects now and in the future.”

"The CALDAC team is excited to forge a unique model for our nation's carbon management. We aim to develop a community-driven approach to co-create a Direct Air Capture (DAC) hub concept, uniting community experts with our technical team. This partnership will evaluate a DAC hub's feasibility, focusing on social equity, environmental fairness, and innovative governance. Our vision is a blueprint for a just energy transition, empowering communities with new opportunities and control over shaping their future." - Newsha Ajami, Chief Development Officer for Research, Lawrence Berkeley National Lab

For more information: https://bit.ly/3scSzMU

For interviews or inquiries, please contact Elisa Rivera at (559) 264-3070

Senator Anna M. Caballero represents the 14 th Senate District, composed of majority portions of Merced, Fresno and Madera Counties.

* Senator Anna M. Caballero serves as the Interim Representative for the Salinas Valley and San Benito County until 2024 when a newly elected Senator will assume the district

Office Information

Capitol

Office

1021 O Street, Suite 7620

Sacramento, CA 95814

Phone: (916) 651-4014

Fresno

District Office

2550 Mariposa Mall, Suite 2016

Fresno, CA 93721

Phone: (559) 264-3070

Merced

510 West Main Street, Suite E

Merced, CA 95340

Phone: (209) 726-5495

California State Senate | Democratic Caucus © | Privacy Policy | Accessibility Statement