SACRAMENTO – California Senate Transportation Chair Senator Dave Cortese (D-Silicon Valley) , state lawmakers, labor leaders, business leaders, and construction trade workers stood together today to call upon the Legislature to support the Governor’s proposal to dedicate $1 billion annually from Cap-and-Trade revenues to keep California’s high-speed rail on track.

“We can’t build a 21st-century transportation system on one-time money alone. A stable state commitment will finish the job ,” said Chair Cortese. “ And with the right framework, we can leverage development along the high-speed rail corridor so the project helps pay for itself, to finally lower the burden on taxpayers .”

Ian Choudri, CEO of the California High-Speed Rail Authority added, “ Supported by the right tools, the right partnerships, and a shared understanding of what success requires, California High-Speed Rail is poised to connect the Central Valley to population centers and innovation hubs by 2038 to 2039. At this critical juncture, the State is faced with a choice: to let the challenges of the past define the program’s future, or to meet this moment with the clarity, coordination, and commitment it demands. While challenges remain, so too does the potential to deliver a modern transportation system worthy of the state’s ambitions — one that reflects the scale, complexity, and promise of California itself. Let’s go build it.”

“ High-speed rail creates middle-class opportunities and demonstrates true climate leadership by putting thousands of skilled tradespeople to work building a cleaner, faster, and more connected California. Continued investment is necessary to turn the promise of high-speed rail into lasting progress for our state ,” said Chris Hannan, President, State Building and Construction Trades Council.

The transformative HSR project has already created over 15,000 high-quality jobs, engaged over 900 small businesses, and will prevent over 142 million metric tons of carbon dioxide emissions. The entire route when fully implemented will be nearly 500 miles. The approximately $13 billion spent on the project to date has generated over $22 billion in economic impact, primarily benefiting communities in California’s Central Valley.

With significant residential and commercial growth expected along the corridor, Senator Cortese has authored SB 545 (2025) , a bill that will help guide the State in leveraging these opportunities to support infrastructure funding, such that the project can serve as a catalyst for economic growth, business expansion, and long-term investment along the corridor.

As Chair of the Senate Transportation Committee, Cortese has been committed to advancing the project without placing additional burdens on taxpayers by pursuing a framework that allows it to generate the revenue needed to sustain and “pay for itself.

Today’s call-to-action comes before key budget and policy deadlines in Sacramento, with supporters stressing that a stable state commitment will ensure the project’s success and prevent delays that could drive up costs.

A livestream of today’s news conference can be found at this link: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Sc8ApMg0Pvk

Media Statements from Today’s News Conference:

Senator Monique Limón, Senate Pro Tem–Elect:

“Clean, fast, and reliable transportation is critical to advance the state’s efforts toward meeting our greenhouse gas goals. By identifying economic opportunities for the project to generate its own revenue, SB 545 helps reduce reliance on taxpayers and contributes to the state’s economic growth.”

Senator Dave Cortese (D-Silicon Valley), Chair of the California Senate Transportation Committee:

“We can’t build a 21st-century transportation system on one-time money alone. A stable state commitment will finish the job. And with the right framework, we can leverage development along the high-speed rail corridor so the project helps pay for itself, to finally lower the burden on taxpayers.”

Ian Choudri, CEO, California High-Speed Rail Authority: “Supported by the right tools, the right partnerships, and a shared understanding of what success requires, California High-Speed Rail is poised to connect the Central Valley to population centers and innovation hubs by 2038 to 2039. At this critical juncture, the State is faced with a choice: to let the challenges of the past define the program’s future, or to meet this moment with the clarity, coordination, and commitment it demands. While challenges remain, so too does the potential to deliver a modern transportation system worthy of the state’s ambitions — one that reflects the scale, complexity, and promise of California itself. Let’s go build it.”

Chris Hannan, President, State Building and Construction Trades Council: “High-speed rail creates middle-class opportunities and demonstrates true climate leadership by putting thousands of skilled tradespeople to work building a cleaner, faster, and more connected California. Continued investment is necessary to turn the promise of high-speed rail into lasting progress for our state.”

Fresno Mayor Jerry Dyer:

“I strongly believe in two things – that Downtown Fresno is on the cusp of a major economic revival, and that if the state’s High Speed Rail project becomes a reality, that revival will be even better and stronger.  That’s why I support Senate Bill 545, which would study the economic opportunities along the high-speed route. I believe it will show positive benefits in the cities where stations will be built.  I want to thank Senator Cortese for proposing this bill, which will prove what I think we all already know intrinsically – high-speed rail is not only good for air quality, but it has the potential to be an economic driver.”

Genelle Taylor Kumpe, CEO, San Joaquin Valley Manufacturing Alliance: “California’s future competitiveness depends on strong infrastructure and the jobs that come with it. Continued investment in projects that create economic opportunity, strengthen supply chains, and prepare the next generation of workers is critical to manufacturers across our state.”

Assemblywoman Lori D. Wilson, Chair of Assembly Transportation Committee: “As a Central Valley native, I know firsthand how transformative high-speed rail will be for our communities. Stable and sustained funding is essential to delivering this project and fulfilling the promise made to voters. The Governor’s proposal to dedicate annual Cap-and-Trade revenues, paired with Senator Cortese’s SB 545, provides the certainty needed to keep high-speed rail on track, avoid costly delays, and ensure long-term planning. Together, these measures not only move us closer to a clean, fast, and safe 21st-century transportation system but also continue to create good-paying union jobs, support small businesses, and drive economic growth across California.”

Senator Tim Grayson (D-Concord): “California’s voters want high speed rail to connect our state, and SB 545 creates a clear framework to get us there through sustained funding and a plan to capture value from residential and commercial growth along the 350-mile corridor to help the project ‘pay for itself’ over time. By investing Cap-and-Trade dollars into this faster, cleaner transportation, we have the opportunity to exponentially increase the value and impact our state monies can have on protecting our environment. I’m proud to support this proposal and thank Chair Cortese for his leadership on this issue.”

Matt Cremins, Director, CA-NV Conference of Operating Engineers: “California’s High-Speed rail project has and continues to be a force of economic mobility in the Central Valley, creating over 15,000 high quality jobs and engaging more than 900 small businesses. In order to build these achievements, it is imperative that the Legislature act to ensure a continued stream of funding for high-speed rail by approving the Governor’s proposal to dedicate $1 billion annually from Cap-and-Trade revenues to the project and additionally pass SB 545 (Cortese) to ensure the we are maximizing the economic potential of this transformative infrastructure investment.”

Senator Anna Caballero (D-Central Valley):

"For too long, people have dismissed high-speed rail as a ‘train to nowhere.’ But we are not nowhere — we are the heart of California. The Central Valley feeds the nation, powers our economy, and deserves the same investment in infrastructure as any other region. The Legislature must match that momentum by committing $1 billion a year from Cap-and-Trade revenues. Before you criticize this project, come to the Central Valley. Walk the construction sites. Talk to the workers and small business owners and see the vision taking shape. This is not just a train — it’s a promise of equity, climate action, and economic opportunity.”

Senator Jerry McNerney (D-Pleasanton): “With the Trump administration illegally withholding billions from high-speed rail, it’s imperative for the Legislature to support Gov. Newsom’s proposal to maintain funding from the state’s cap-and-trade program for this vitally important project. Recent polling also shows that a near-super majority of Californians continue to support high-speed rail and know the importance of moving forward with a clean, fast rail line connecting Northern and Southern California, even if the White House wants to take us backward.”

Ray LaHood, U.S. DOT Secretary (Ret.), Co-Chair, California High-Speed Rail Authority Board of Directors: “With robust, long-term funding, California High-Speed Rail will be able to accelerate progress and attract the many private investors who have expressed an interest in taking a stake in the project. California now has the opportunity to complete America's first solar powered high-speed rail system—a milestone that will reduce traffic gridlock, fight climate change, help solve the state’s housing crisis and connect people to thousands of good-paying jobs across the state.”

Janet Cox, CEO, Climate Action California: “California High-Speed Rail is a key element of California’s ongoing efforts to reduce emissions and meet our climate goals. Transportation is the largest source of climate-heating emissions in California. High-speed rail will create an efficient, sustainable alternative to both air and automobile travel between our state’s major cities and provide the backbone for robust system of intercity rail and local transit. High-speed rail will also provide major economic benefits to California. It will increase economic integration and strengthen the links among California’s major metropolitan areas by providing fast, reliable, center-to-center connections. SB 545 supports high-speed rail by calling for a report that will make clear the economic opportunities along the corridor, helping all Californians to better recognize and prepare for the benefits of this crucial transportation system.”

Assemblymember Joaquin Arambula (D-Fresno): “The high-speed rail project is transforming the Central Valley, and the Cap-and-Trade Program revenues are integral to this progress. Nearly 15,000 jobs have been created, which is helping to drive economic development in Fresno and the surrounding region – an area that is home to disadvantaged communities that historically haven’t received their fair share of State investments. The Cap-and-Trade Program is essential to supporting California’s vision for faster, cleaner transportation that connects our State while protecting the environment -- that future has started in Fresno and the Valley.”

Senator Lola Smallwood-Cuevas (D-Los Angeles): “Cap-and-Trade is about holding polluters accountable and reinvesting in the communities most impacted by pollution — often Black and Brown neighborhoods that have carried the greatest burden. High-speed rail is exactly the kind of investment we need: It builds a cleaner, more connected California while creating thousands of union jobs. And we must ensure workforce equity, with pathways that open doors for workers who too often have been left out of good-paying careers.”

Melanie Okoro, Ph.D., Principal & CEO, Eco-Alpha: “As a means of bridging the gap for small business participation, utilization, and sustainability, high-speed rail has already built the physical bridges connecting communities and thoroughfares across the Central Valley. Small businesses are equally committed to building those bridges for our operations and maintenance firms — including engineers, electricians, and others trades — as well as professional service providers such as right-of-way experts, environmental consultants, planners, and AI technicians. SB 545 strengthens the participation of small business partners, ensuring they remain integral to the economic development of the communities directly impacted by, and benefiting from, this transformative transportation project.”

###

Office Information

Capitol Office

1021 O Street Suite 7520 Sacramento, CA 95814

Phone: (916) 651-4015 Fax: (916) 651-4915

San Jose Office

1155 Meridian Avenue Suite 100 San Jose, CA 95125

Phone: (408) 723-4154 Fax: (408) 723-4159

California State Senate | Democratic Caucus © 2025 | Privacy Policy | Accessibility Statement

State Leaders Call for Fast-Track of High-Speed Rail